Position Title
Lead Facilities Project Manager
Agency
Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers
Announcement Number
FLETC-MRSD-25-12793504 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 10, 2025 to Tuesday, September 16, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a U.S. citizen?

All U.S. citizens are eligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
12
13
FLETC Data
1. Did you accept a lump sum payment from the government through a workforce transition program such as the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP), Voluntary Early Retirement Authority (VERA), and/ or Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) before September 30th, 2025?
 A. Yes, I accepted a lump sum pay out from a workforce transition program.
 B. Yes, I accepted the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) only.
 C. No, I did not participate in either program.
2. How did you learn about this Department of Homeland Security (DHS) job opportunity announcement?
--Select-- 
--Select--
Career Fair
Met a FLETC representative at a recruitment event
Magazine
Newspaper
Radio
TV
Poster
Private Employment Office
State Employment Office (Unemployment Office)
Agency Human Resources Development (bulletin board or other announcement)
Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college
Federal, state, or local Job Information Center
Religious organization
College, university, or career placement counselor
Friend or relative working for this agency
Friend or relative not working for this agency
USAJOBS
Professional Association
Publication
Conference
College Event
Private information service
LinkedIn
Other
3. I have thoroughly reviewed the 'How to Apply/Required Documents' & 'Qualifications' sections of this Vacancy Announcement to determine which supplemental documents to submit. This may include: Transcripts to verify undergraduate/graduate education; A Current/Non-Award SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, noting current position title, series, grade, position occupied, tenure, highest salary (including basic pay) and duty location if I am a current/former Federal employee; DD-214 if I am a veteran (and SF-15/VA Letter if applicable), etc. I understand that failure to fax or upload required documents by the vacancy announcement's closing date may result in loss of consideration. Answer to this question is required.
 A. Yes
 B. No
COE
1. Must possess and maintain Federal Acquisition Certification - Contracting Officer Representative (FAC-COR) Level II certification; or have the requisite experience to obtain and maintain certification. Must be able to obtain and maintain FAC-COR Level III certification.
 A. Yes, possess and maintain Federal Acquisition Certification - Contracting Officer Representative (FAC-COR) Level II certification. (I have submitted a copy of my certificate with my application.)
 B. No, I do not possess Federal Acquisition Certification - Contracting Officer Representative (FAC-COR) Level II certification but I have the requisite experience to obtain and maintain certification. (I have submitted a copy of my certificate with my application)
 C. No, I do not meet the requirements for any of the certifications as listed above.
2. I am willing and able to possess and maintain a valid state-issued driver's license to conduct official government business.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I am willing and able to complete an OGE 450, Confidential Financial Disclosure Report, within 30 days of starting federal employment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
OPM Narrative Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. From the options below, select the one statement that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for a Lead Facilities Project Manager GS-1601-12. NOTE: Your resume must support your claim of specialized experience, i.e. where, when and how you performed the work, or you may be found ineligible.
 A. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-11) or pay band in the Federal service, or equivalent experience in the private or public sector performing the following duties: Serving as a team leader providing direction, planning, and coordinating facilities maintenance, repair, and construction to support programs.
 B. I do not have the experience described above.
2. From the options below, select the one statement that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for a Lead Facilities Project Manager GS-1601-13. NOTE: Your resume must support your claim of specialized experience, i.e. where, when and how you performed the work, or you may be found ineligible.
 A. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-12) or pay band in the Federal service, or equivalent experience in the private or public sector performing the following duties: Serving and coordinating for facilities maintenance, repair, and construction activities. Participating in the development of plans and specifications for repairs, improvements, construction projects, and other job work orders to support programs.
 B. I do not have the experience described above.
3. In order to be considered for this position you must meet one of the selective placement factors. From the list below select the statement(s) that describes your experience. (Please submit a copy of your certificate with your application.)
 
 A. Yes, possess and maintain Federal Acquisition Certification - Contracting Officer Representative (FAC-COR) Level II certification. (I have submitted a copy of my certificate with my application.)
 B. No, I do not possess Federal Acquisition Certification - Contracting Officer Representative (FAC-COR) Level II certification but I have the requisite experience to obtain and maintain certification. (I have submitted a copy of my certificate with my application.)
 C. No, I do not meet the requirements for any of the certifications as listed above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, ALL of the information provided on this application is true, accurate, and complete, and that this application for employment is made in good faith. I understand that a false statement on any part of this application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that I may be punished by fine or imprisonment for falsification of my employment application (18 USC 1001). I understand that information I give may be investigated as allowed by law or Executive order. Do you understand and agree to all the above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected