Position Title
Lead Contract Specialist
Agency
Agricultural Marketing Service
Announcement Number
MP-12771218-25-CPH Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 30, 2025 to Tuesday, August 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. Your answers will be used to determine your eligibility to apply to this job opportunity announcement. You will be considered under the eligibility option(s) to which you answer YES. Select YES to all eligibility options for which you want to be considered. If you respond NO to meeting the criteria for all the eligibilities, you will not be considered for the position(s) under this announcement.

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration for EACH selected eligibility. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration.
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty?

-OR-

Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating of 100 percent at the time of retirement or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?

-OR-

Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

 For more information, review USAJOBS Help Center Military Spouses 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former permanent Farm Service Agency County employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current Federal employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a Federal employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment AND you have held or currently hold a position on a permanent basis in the competitive service with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than USDA? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

 For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
8.
Are you a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who is claiming eligibility under the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act and: 

• was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; and,

• served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a single break in service of two or more years; and,
• performed at an acceptable level during each period of service; and,

• if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and whose most recent separation was for reasons other than misconduct or performance.
  
Note: Service must be in the competitive service and have been at a successful level of performance or better.  Part-time and intermittent service will be credited only for time actually worked.  Non-pay status (such as LWOP) is credited for up to six months in a calendar year; anything beyond six months is not credited.  Applicants are responsible for providing sufficient information/documentation to determine if the 24 month criteria is met.
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 A. Yes
 B. No
10.
Are you:

• a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (Note: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
• eligible for veterans' preference?

Note: If you are currently on active duty you may be considered under the two provisions above provided you submit  a certification of expected discharge or release from active duty service under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the date the certification is submitted. 

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Kansas City, MO
2. Are you a retiree receiving a civilian Federal or FSA County Annuity?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Have you ever received a voluntary separation incentive payment (VSIP or buyout) to leave the Federal civilian service or FSA County position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former: Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a federal employee receiving a recruitment, relocation, retention and/or other incentive payment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Once a selection is made for this position, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with other hiring managers in the agency who have similar vacancies. Please opt in below if you're willing to have your name, application material, and assessment results shared to be considered for additional, similar positions. There is no guarantee of for further consideration.
 A. Opt-in: Please share my name, application material, and assessment results with additional hiring managers within the agency for similar positions.
 B. Opt-out: I only want to be considered for positions associated with this specific application.
Core Questions
1. Has your work schedule been full-time, i.e., 35-40 hours per week, for every position listed on your resume or OF-612?

If yes, please type Yes.
If no, please type No and include the following in your response for all positions held: position title, employer, dates employed (MM/DD/YY), work schedule (i.e., Full-Time (FT), Part-Time (PT), etc.), and hours/week. Please list in order with current/most recent position first.
Failure to provide all requested information may prevent us from giving credit for experience.
2. I understand for information on the status of my application and the outcome of the application process, I (the applicant) must inquire through USAJOBS. No separate notification will be sent to me. To view the status of my application and the outcome of the application process, I must go to the USAJOBS website and log into My Account. Once in My Account, I must enter the "Application Status" section of the website.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD 214, 50B, performance appraisal may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I understand that any correspondence necessary will be conducted via e-mail and sent to the e-mail address I provided in this application process. I must keep this e-mail address current.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I understand that if I am a current or former federal employee, I must submit an SF-50 showing my career/career-conditional status AND a performance appraisal dated within 18 months or as statement detailing the reason for not submitting the appraisal as part of the application package.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. If you are, or ever were, a federal civilian employee in a permanent position in the competitive service, what is the highest grade level you held, excluding temporary promotions? (Please include the pay plan, e.g. GS-7, WG-10, or NA for not applicable). (limit 250 characters)
7. If you are, or ever were, a federal civilian employee, please indicate the start date and end dates of the highest graded permanent positions you held, excluding temporary promotions (e.g. MM/YYYY to MM/YYYY, MM/YYYY to present, or NA for not applicable). (limit 250 characters)
8. I understand that competitive eligible applicants are required to complete all of the assigned assessments including the online USA Hire assessment, non-competitive eligible applicants are not required to complete the online USA Hire assessment, and if I am unsure of my eligibility status, I should complete all of the assigned assessments including the online USA Hire assessment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. AMS Basic Requirement (GS-13 and Above) - Choose the one answer that best describes your education and experience.
 A. I have at least 4-years experience in contracting or related positions. At least 1 year of this experience has been specialized experience at or equivalent to work at the next lower level of this position, and provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the work of the position. I am at least FAC-C Level I certified. NOTE: Must include a copy of your highest level of FAC-C certification with your application. AND; I have also completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree, that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management.
 B. I meet the following exception: Employees in GS-1102 positions will be considered to have met the standard for positions they occupy on January 1, 2000. This also applies to positions at the same grade in the same agency or other agencies if the specialized experience requirements are met. However, they will have to meet the basic requirements and specialized experience requirements in order to qualify for promotion to a higher grade.
 C. I do not meet either of the requirements as described above.
2. GS-13 - In addition to the basic requirement, choose the one answer that best describes your experience.
 A. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service as described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
3. SELECTIVE FACTOR: Are you certified in either Federal Acquisition Certification in Contracting (FAC-C) Professional or Defense Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act (DAWIA) certified?
 A. Yes – Proof of FAC-C training course completion will be required if selected. All required training courses must be completed by the closing date of the announcement.
 B. No
4. As a Contracting Officer, I have warrant authority in the following amounts:
 A. Less than or equal to $150,000
 B. $150,000 to $10,000,000
 C. Greater than $10,000,000
 D. Unlimited authority
 E. None of the above
5. On behalf of my employer, I have performed the following functions in the contracting process to acquire goods and/or services:
 A. Insured the bid schedule was properly structured
 B. Prepared the solicitation documents
 C. Issued the solicitation documents
 D. Developed procurement plans
 E. Analyzed contract requirement
 F. Recommended revision to statement of work or specifications
 G. Decided on the method of contracting/milestones/procurement plan
 H. Drafted final contracts
 I. Awarded contract
 J. Recommended awarding of contract
 K. Determined the sources to be solicited
 L. Conducted pre-award conferences
 M. Processed protests
 N. Determined responsiveness of bids/proposals
 O. Determined the responsibility of the successful bidder or offeror
 P. Arranged for publication of requirements
 Q. Analyzed offers received
 R. Evaluated technical cost proposals
 S. Reviewed technical issues
 T. Entered into formal contracts with offerors
 U. None of the above
6. I have direct experience and am proficient at administering the following functions for procurements that support the requirements of a multi-area, national, or international business or organization:
 A. Incremental funding
 B. Redirection of effort
 C. Coordination of time extension
 D. Incorporation of change orders
 E. Issuance of stop work orders
 F. Approval of progress payments
 G. Final payment to contractor
 H. None of the above
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
7. Analyzing data and information to interpret facts, draw conclusions, or identify and resolve problems.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
8. I have experience organizing, managing and prioritizing work under the following circumstances:
 A. Worked on several projects simultaneously
 B. Uncertain, fluctuating, or changing program conditions
 C. Time constraints/deadlines
 D. Competing programs or program objectives
 E. Competing assignment priorities or deadlines
 F. None of the above
9. I have direct experience and proficient at evaluating the following information to ensure that procurement items/services are obtained at fair and reasonable prices:
 A. Evaluated the responsiveness of the contractor’s bid
 B. Evaluated the responsiveness of the contractor’s offer to the solicitation
 C. Evaluated contractor’s cost proposal
 D. Evaluated contractor’s price proposal
 E. None of the above
10. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 A. Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 B. No, I do not certify and I understand that by responding “no” to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected