Position Title
Chief Stationary Engineer
Agency
Bureau of Engraving and Printing
Announcement Number
25-BEP-12792648-A Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 9, 2025 to Tuesday, September 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current Bureau of Engraving and Printing employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current BEP employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current BEP employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current BEP employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions and you:

• recently separated (within the past 3 years)
• are a disabled veteran
• served on active duty during a war, campaign or expedition OR
• received an Armed Forces Service Medal

If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. If claiming disability preference, provide the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other
3. As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal (i.e. final annual performance appraisal issued and signed by appropriate management official) dated within the last 18 months. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these specific requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so. If you fail to provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration. NOTE: If you are wanting to be considered for non competitive reinstatement a performance appraisal document MUST be submitted to be eligible. Type "yes" in the text box below if you are providing a performance appraisal meeting the above requirements with your application. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application meeting the requirement, please provide a reason in the text box below. ("N/A" is not considered an acceptable response).
4. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
5. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
7. Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.
8. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. Please select which of the following that accurately reflect your ability to supervise facility equipment related operations and maintenance, evaluate program plans for efficiency and compliance, and monitor employee's workload and performance in a manufacturing environment.
 A. I do not have experience in performing these work behaviors.
 B. I have limited experience in performing these work behaviors. I have had exposure to these work behaviors, but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 C. I have performed these work behaviors with minimal supervision across a wide range of situations. I have routinely assisted others in carrying out these work behaviors. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations and can troubleshoot with minimal supervision.
 D. I have experience in independently carrying out these work behaviors. I supervise and monitor others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or superiors to carry out this work behavior and troubleshoot issues independently in unusually complex situations.
2. Choose all of the following HVAC systems you have experience troubleshooting/maintaining/operating.
 A. Condenser Water Systems including cooling towers.
 B. Industrial Chillers 1500 tons or greater.
 C. Industrial HVAC DX cooling and Refrigeration systems.
 D. Various size Air Handling Units.
 E. None of the above.
3. Choose all of the following Electrical systems you have experience troubleshooting/maintaining/operating.
 A. Electrical substations less than 25,000 volts.
 B. Emergency Generators greater than 1MW.
 C. Power Monitoring System.
 D. Emergency Generator Switchgear 3000 amps or higher.
 E. None of the above.
4. The following are computer software applications necessary to manage, maintain, and repair critical equipment, and ensure milestones are met through completion of projects. Please select from the following those that you have what would be considered advanced-level experience in.
 A. SCADA system.
 B. Building Automation Systems (ie: Siemens, Metasys).
 C. CMMS Software (Maximo).
 D. Financial Management Systems such as Oracle.
 E. None of the above.
5. Choose the selection that best describes your experience administering a preventative maintenance (PM) program to maintain system operations.
 A. I do not have experience administering a preventative maintenance (PM) program to maintain system operations.
 B. I have limited experience in operating administering a preventative maintenance (PM) program to maintain system operations. I have had exposure to this system, but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to operate at a proficient level.
 C. I have operated a preventative maintenance (PM) program to maintain system operations with minimal supervision across a wide range of situations. I have routinely assisted others in carrying out this task. I seek guidance in completing this task only in unusually complex situations and can troubleshoot with minimal supervision.
 D. I have experience in independently administering a preventative maintenance (PM) program to maintain system operations on a regular basis. I supervise and monitor others in carrying out this task on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or superiors to carry out this task and troubleshoot issues independently in unusually complex situations.
6. From the list below, choose all of the Contractual tasks you have performed.
 A. Ensuring contractual personnel are completing work in accordance with contractual agreement.
 B. Identifying contractual shortcomings and delegating tasks and providing guidance to correct these shortcomings.
 C. Interacting with contractual personnel to analyze and review the work being performed.
 D. Supervising Contractors compliance with existing contracts.
 E. None of the above.
7. Select from the list below those answers that describes your experience identifying and analyzing problems; making logical decisions; and providing solutions.
 A. Identified and analyzed problems, and distinguished between relevant and irrelevant information to make rational decisions.
 B. Developed policies, regulations, procedures, and plans for meeting the organization's goals and objectives.
 C. Independently interpreted and applied statutes and regulations to resolve problems and issues.
 D. Developed comprehensive material for reports, briefings, or meetings to brief stakeholders.
 E. None of the above.
8. Select from the response(s) below that best describe your experience in analyzing data and monitoring contractual tasks.
 A. I have experience supervising and coordinating contractor activities for construction, maintenance and equipment installation projects.
 B. I have completed work site inspections to ensure the contractor was performing work in compliance with contractual requirements, specifications, drawings, and standard trade practices.
 C. I have supervised contractor activities to ensure conservation of energy and resources, and to ensure the protection of the environment from contamination from contractor activities.
 D. I have provided guidance to safety personnel in monitoring contractor activities to assure a safe working environment in compliance with agency/organization and OSHA regulations.
 E. None of the above.
9. Please select the one statement that best describes your highest span of control in managing a manufacturing organization.
 A. I have experience managing a large (25 or more employees), highly complex (several departments) Facilities Maintenance organization.
 B. I have experience managing a moderately large (10 or more employees), complex (limited departments) Facilities Maintenance organization.
 C. I have experience managing a small (9 or fewer employees) Facilities Maintenance organization, characterized by limited organizational divisions.
 D. I have no experience managing a Facilities Maintenance organization.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
10. Do you have any experience monitoring an operational budget?
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Please select all of the following options you have used to interpret specifications in a work environment
 A. Architectural Drawings
 B. Mechanical Drawings
 C. Electrical Drawings
 D. Structural Drawings
 E. None of the above
12. Choose the statement that describes your experience analyzing facility processes, programs, and systems, in order to recommend improvements.
 A. I have assisted senior level employees with analyzing a process, program or system in order to provide recommendations on improvements.
 B. I have independently analyzed a process, program or system and made recommendations to improve effectiveness or operations.
 C. As a supervisor or project leader, I have conducted in-depth studies of facility processes, programs, or systems and have made recommendations to improve effectiveness or operations.
 D. None of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected