Position Title
Social Worker (Clinical)
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJW-25-12810223-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, October 6, 2025 to Monday, October 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Fort Richardson, AK
 B. Fort Wainwright, AK


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Thank you for your interest in a Social Worker (Clinical) position with the Department of Defense. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you meet the basic eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Social Worker (Clinical) at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes conducting bio-psychosocial evaluations of behavioral health patients, providing individual or group clinical counseling, and developing behavioral health treatment plans or recommendations.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Social Worker (Clinical) at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a master's degree (or higher degree) in social work from a school accredited by the Council on Social Work Education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


3.
This position requires a current, active, valid, unrestricted clinical license to practice Social Work independently, offered by a U.S. State, District of Columbia, commonwealth, territory or jurisdiction. Do you possess a current, active, valid, unrestricted clinical license to practice Social Work independently? (Note: You must attach a copy of your license.)
 Yes, I possess a current, active, valid, and unrestricted clinical license to practice Social Work independently offered by a U.S. State, District of Columbia, Commonwealth, territory, or jurisdiction.
 No, I do not possess a current, active, valid, and unrestricted clinical license to practice Social Work independently offered by a U.S. State, District of Columbia, Commonwealth, territory, or jurisdiction.


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙