Position Title
Border Patrol Agent (20K to 30K BPA Recruitment Incentive)
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
BPA GL9/11 25-11 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 1, 2025 to Sunday, August 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
MAXIMUM AGE REQUIREMENT: This position has a maximum age requirement. The following questions are to determine if you meet this requirement or if you are eligible for a waiver of this requirement based on previous federal law enforcement covered experience or veterans' preference.

Please ensure you enter your date of birth accurately.

1. This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.
 
In accordance with DHS Directive 251-03 and the Commissioner of CBP, candidates must be referred before reaching their 40th birthday. Unless the below criteria applies, you must meet this age requirement by the date of referral.

Previous Federal Law Enforcement Officer Service: Service covered by Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) or Title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d), or creditable service covered by Title 5 U.S.C. 8401(36) (as a Customs and Border Protection Officer) on or after July 6, 2008, may be applied toward the maximum age requirement. You must submit proof of prior creditable LEO service at the time of application (e.g., SF-50s).

OR

Veterans' Preference Eligibility: To ensure compliance with statutes pertaining to the appointment of preference eligible veterans as determined by the Merit Systems Protection Board in its decision of Isabella v. Dept. of State, the maximum age articulated above shall not apply to the hiring of individuals entitled to veterans' preference eligibility under 5 U.S.C. § 3312. You must submit proof of veterans' preference eligibility at the time of application.
2. If you are requesting an age waiver based on creditable Federal law enforcement service; you must submit copies of your SF-50s (Notice of Personnel Actions) reflecting the beginning and end of creditable Federal civilian (not military) service under Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c), title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d), or creditable service covered by Public Law 110-161 on or after July 6, 2008. Block 30 of your SF-50 should indicate Retirement Code M or O.

NOTE: Military law enforcement and Transportation Security Officers (TSO) working for the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) are not considered law enforcement covered positions for the purpose of this announcement.

Are you requesting an age waiver based on previous Federal law enforcement experience covered by the law enforcement retirement coverage documented as M or O on your SF-50(s)?
 A. No, I am not requesting an age waiver based on previous Federal law enforcement officer experience under Federal law enforcement retirement coverage.
 B. Yes, I am requesting an age waiver based on previous Federal law enforcement experience under Federal law enforcement retirement coverage and I will upload the required SF-50 documents to this application.
If you are requesting an age waiver based on previous Federal law enforcement retirement coverage as shown on your SF-50, you will enter the number of months earned in those positions below. If you do not have previous Federal law enforcement service under the retirement coverage, enter a "0" below.

If you enter a number other than "0" below, you are required to submit an SF-50(s) with this application to support the number of months earned in that qualifying position. The SF-50(s) must show the retirement code in Block 30 is either M or O.

Please ensure you are entering the number of MONTHS not years (for example: if you have one year of previous FLEO retirement covered service you would enter "12" in the box below).

3. Enter the number of MONTHS of Federal service experience you have attained as a firefighter, law enforcement or air traffic controller.
If you are requesting an age waiver based on veterans' preference eligibility, you must submit the required documentation for the type of preference you select below. If you are not a veteran or you do not have veterans' preference eligibility, select one of the "no preference" options below.

4. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
5. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who meets one of the following criteria:
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) Eligible:  You have received notice that you will be displaced from the DHS, or
Displaced DHS employee with a confirmed Reemployment Priority List (RPL) registration: 
You have received notice that you will be displaced from the DHS, or
You have been separated by a reduction in force (RIF) from DHS within the last two years, or
You are fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year from date of separation from DHS due to a Workers Compensation Claim? 
 If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency? If yes, confirm:
You occupy (or have been separated from) a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Please select a preferred location below. These locations are expected to have vacancies at the time of your final offer. If these locations do not have vacancies at the time of your final offer, you may be offered another geographic location within the United States. Final locations are offered based on operational needs and are determined by the U.S. Border Patrol. Due to mission needs, final locations cannot be determined until after you successfully complete pre-employment.

Select your preferred duty location from the list below.
--Select-- 
--Select--
Ajo, AZ
Casa Grande, AZ
Douglas, AZ
Nogales, AZ
Sonoita, AZ
Tucson, AZ
Tucson, AZ - Brian A. Terry Station
Tucson, AZ - Three Points Substation
Wellton, AZ
Wilcox, AZ
Yuma, AZ
Blythe, CA
Boulevard, CA
Brownfield, CA
Calexico, CA
Campo, CA
Chula Vista, CA
El Centro, CA
Imperial Beach, CA
Indio, CA
Murrieta, CA
San Clemente, CA
Calais, ME
Fort Fairfield, ME
Jackman, ME
Rangeley, ME
Van Buren, ME
Havre, MT
Malta, MT
Plentywood, MT
Scobey, MT
Sunburst, MT
Pembina, ND
Alamogordo, NM
Deming, NM
Las Cruces, NM
Lordsburg, NM
Santa Teresa, NM
Champlain, NY
Malone, NY
Wellesley Island, NY
Alpine, TX
Brackettville, TX
Brownsville, TX - Brownsville Station
Brownsville, TX - Fort Brown Station
Carrizo Springs, TX
Clint, TX
Comstock, TX
Cotulla, TX
Del Rio, TX
Eagle Pass, TX - Eagle Pass North Station
Eagle Pass, TX - Eagle Pass South Station
El Paso, TX
Falfurrias, TX
Fort Hancock, TX
Freer, TX
Harlingen, TX
Hebbronville, TX
Kingsville, TX
Laredo, TX - North Station
Laredo, TX - South Station
Laredo, TX - West Station
Marfa, TX
McAllen, TX
Presidio, TX
Rio Grande City, TX
Sanderson, TX
Sierra Blanca, TX
Uvalde, TX
Van Horn, TX
Weslaco, TX
Ysleta, TX
Zapata, TX
Canaan, VT
Derby, VT
Richford, VT
Colville, WA
Curlew, WA
Metaline, WA
Oroville, WA
2. Applicants who receive a tentative offer of employment must successfully complete a polygraph examination. Provided below is a list of locations where polygraph examinations are offered. Please select the location where you prefer to complete your polygraph examination. CBP will do its best to schedule you at your preferred location. However, you may be required to travel to attend the polygraph. CBP will not reimburse you for travel to or from the polygraph site. You will be contacted by the Office of Professional Responsibility to schedule the required polygraph examination.
--Select-- 
--Select--
AZ: Tucson [1001]
AZ: Yuma [1002]
CA: Aliso Viejo (LA/SD) [1004]
CA: San Diego [1003]
CA: San Francisco [1006]
FL: Miramar [1010]
FL: Orlando [1011]
GA: Atlanta (Kennesaw) [1040]
IL: Chicago [1013]
IN: Indianapolis [1014]
ME: Portland [1035]
MI: Detroit [1015]
MN: Bloomington (Mpls/St Paul) [1016]
NJ: Newark [1017]
NY: Buffalo [1018]
NY: Valley Stream [1019]
PR: San Juan [1038]
TN: Nashville [1048]
TX: El Paso [1021]
TX: Houston [1022]
TX: Irving (Dallas/Ft Worth) [1023]
TX: McAllen [1025]
TX: San Antonio [1046]
WA: Seattle [1007]
Washington, DC [1008]
3. Applicants are highly encouraged to "Opt-in" for text message reminders!
For applicants who receive a tentative selection offer from Customs and Border Protection, the CBP Hiring Center is offering text messaging reminders. This service will provide you with helpful reminders of scheduled appointments as you move through the pre-employment process. All automated messages are programmed to remind applicants of upcoming appointments (i.e., medical appointment, fitness test reminder, etc.) approximately 3-days out from the appointment dates. Text messaging will not replace any form of official communication, but is intended solely as an added service to reinforce communication.

You may choose to "Opt-in" for this customer service option. Based on conditions set by your mobile carrier, standard text messaging rates may apply which will not be reimbursed by U.S. Customs and Border Protection. Please check with your carrier to address any potential costs to you to ensure receiving text messaging is an option available to you based on the terms of your service contract. Some carriers may also block incoming "fee generating" text messages or messages from outlying sources and some messages may appear truncated based on limitations imposed by your carrier. Current system constraints with some carriers may not support text messaging service. If you choose to opt-in at this time, you may elect to discontinue this service later by contacting the CBP Hiring Center.

Please select your carrier below. If you do not wish to "Opt In" for text messaging reminders, please choose the last option.
--Select-- 
--Select--
AT&T [0002]
Boost Mobile [0003]
Cricket Wireless [0004]
Sprint [0006]
T-Mobile [0007]
Verizon [0008]
Virgin Mobile USA [0009]
Cellular South [0012]
Centennial Wireless [0013]
Qwest [0015]
Simple Mobile [0016]
TracFone [0017]
Other [0010]
I do NOT opt in to receive text messaging reminders
4. If you opted in for text messaging reminders, please add you cell phone number below in this format: xxx-xxx-xxxx

If you did not opt in for text messaging reminders, please enter N/A below.
5. How did you first hear about this position?
--Select-- 
--Select--
Attended an in-person or virtual event or spoke with a CBP recruiter
Referred by a friend or family member
Previous CBP employment experience
Previous CBP job application
USAJOBS.gov search
CBP advertisement on social media or online
CBP advertisement in theater, television, or film
CBP advertisement in print (newspaper, magazine, etc.)
CBP advertisement on outdoor banner or billboard
CBP advertisement on radio
Social media post or video
News story
A job board
Internet Search
Professional Bull Riders (PBR)
6. Did you participate in a CBP student or internship program?
 A. Yes, CBP Explorers Program
 B. Yes, CBP Pathways Program
 C. Yes, CBP High School Enrichment Program
 D. No, I did not participate in one of the above CBP internship-student programs.
Assessment 1
QUALIFICATIONS: The following questions, along with your submitted resume and other supporting documentation, will be used to determine if you meet the minimum qualifications for the position and grade levels. More information and a description of the minimum qualification requirements can be found in the vacancy announcement. When answering the following questions regarding your experience, you must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement.
1. Which of the following statements best describes your experience to qualify for the GL-09 grade level?
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level: • Performing physical searches of detained individuals, their vehicles, and their immediate surroundings for weapons, contraband, currency, and other evidence • Apprehending, physically restraining or working with law enforcement officials to identify or apprehend violators of state, federal, or immigration laws • Proficient in the use of firearms, preparing investigative reports, serving court orders (e.g., warrants, subpoenas, etc.) and gathering evidence for criminal cases prosecuted through the court system
 B. I do not possess the experience described above and I understand that I will not be considered for this grade
2. Which of the following statements best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-11 grade level?
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level: • Utilizing intelligence information to track illegal operations, criminal activity, threats to our nation, and/or contraband while serving as a state, Federal, or military law enforcement official • Leading investigations of fraud, contraband, criminal activity, threats to our nation, and/or illegal operations to determine sources and patterns while serving as a state, Federal, or military law enforcement official • Apprehending violators of state, federal or immigration laws by utilizing various forms of complex technology that includes surveillance, detection, situation awareness systems, and/or communications equipment
 B. I do not possess the experience described above and I understand that I will not be considered for this grade.
3. Are you a current or former Federal employee?
 A. Yes and I understand that it is recommended I submit an SF-50 “Notification of Personnel Action” with my application and that I may be required to submit an SF-50 if I receive a tentative job offer
 B. No
4. What is your current position title and grade? Enter "n/a" if you are not current federal employee.
5. Have you been at your current grade for 52 weeks or more?
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks at my current grade
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks at my current grade
 C. Not applicable, I am not a current or former Federal employee
6. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work. 

Your resume must:
Be in English
Include full legal name 
Address 
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles) 
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
Current or former Federal employees must include your salary, pay scale and pay grade information for that work experience to be considered

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may result in removal from consideration
7. Indicate the extent of your experience conducting vehicle/vessel stops.
 A. I have no training or experience in performing this task
 B. I have completed coursework on vehicle/vessel stop techniques, but have not applied this knowledge in my work
 C. I have interviewed passengers to gather information during vehicle/vessel stops, and searched for contraband
 D. I have conducted vehicle/vessel stops, detained individuals, conducted interviews, and searched for contraband
8. Indicate the extent of your experience conducting law enforcement interviews of suspects or witnesses.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task
 B. I have received training in interview techniques, but I have had no hands-on experience in conducting law enforcement interviews
 C. I have had experience conducting law enforcement interviews of suspects or witnesses under the direct supervision or guidance of others
 D. I have had extensive experience independently conducting law enforcement interviews of suspects or witnesses
9. Select the choice which best describes your ability to use automated systems related to law enforcement operations.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task
 B. I have a basic knowledge of automated systems used for law enforcement operations but limited hands-on experience in using the systems to research and locate information
 C. I have independently used automated systems and data processing technology to research and locate information related to law enforcement operations (e.g., conducting records checks, lookouts)
 D. I have had extensive knowledge of and experience in using automated systems for law enforcement operations. I have trained and instructed peers and lower level employees in the proper use of these systems to research and locate information (e.g., conducting records checks, lookouts)
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
10. Indicate the extent of your experience conducting law enforcement authorities in a patrol environment.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
11. Indicate the extent of your experience in effecting lawful arrests.
 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have received training in effecting lawful arrests, but I have not applied this training on the job
 C. I have effected lawful arrests under the guidance of an experienced individual
 D. I have independently effected lawful arrests
 E. I have supervised or directed others in effecting lawful arrests
12. Indicate the extent of your experience in developing law enforcement related casework.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task
 B. I have received training in the basic information needed to establish a law enforcement related case, but I have not applied this training on the job
 C. I have assisted others in gathering information to support the development of a law enforcement related case
 D. I have independently established and documented the necessary elements of law enforcement related casework
13. Select the response that best describes your experience applying personal search laws, policies, and procedures.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task
 B. I have received basic training on personal search laws, policies, and procedures, but have not applied this training on the job
 C. I have had experience conducting patdown searches of individuals suspected of carrying contraband
 D. I have had experience conducting patdown searches as well as partial body searches after establishing reasonable suspicion
14. Select the response that best describes your experience physically restraining noncompliant individuals during the course of your duties (e.g., military, law enforcement, correctional officers, security).
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task
 B. I have completed training on physical restraint techniques, but have not applied this knowledge while on duty
 C. I have had some experience physically restraining noncompliant individuals during the course of my duties.
 D. I have had extensive experience physically restraining noncompliant individuals during the course of my duties.
15. Choose the option that best describes your experience assessing situations and applying the appropriate level of force required.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task
 B. I have completed use of force training and have experience using officer presence to preserve control of situations and ensure the safety of those present
 C. I have used commands or called for backup to preserve control of situations and ensure the safety of those present
 D. I have had extensive experience preserving control of situations and ensuring the safety of those present by making rapid determinations to escalate and de-escalate levels of force
16. Indicate the extent of your experience handling sensitive information (e.g., law enforcement sensitive information, operationally sensitive information, intelligence information, employee information).
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task
 B. I have received basic training in this area and have been responsible for safeguarding sensitive information in accordance with prescribed procedures
 C. I have extensive knowledge of the procedures for safeguarding sensitive information and have provided guidance and direction to others in this area
 D. I have been responsible for the oversight of sensitive information, to include ensuring adherence with all policies and procedures at a work group level or higher
17. Indicate the extent of your experience in handling stressful situations.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task
 B. As part of my regular job duties, I have dealt with occasional periods of mild stress
 C. As part of my regular job duties, I have dealt on a daily basis with moderate stress (e.g., handling heavy workloads, meeting tight deadlines)
 D. As part of my regular job duties, I have frequently dealt with highly stressful situations (e.g., interactions with hostile or violent individuals, armed encounters, vehicles that fail to yield)
18. Indicate the extent of your experience administering first aid to individuals who have been injured or are in physiological distress.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task
 B. I have received basic first aid training but have not used this training
 C. I have administered basic first aid to treat minor injuries, dehydration, or heat stroke
 D. I have administered first aid to treat moderate to severe injuries and have received training on how to perform cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) on individuals who have stopped breathing
19. Select the choice which best describes your ability to establish and maintain effective working relations with the public.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task
 B. I have established relationships with members of the public by providing routine information, resolving simple problems, and referring non-routine problems or questions to the appropriate person/office
 C. I have developed and maintained relationships with interest groups with diverse needs, anticipated and assessed their needs, and provided complex information to them. I have resolved complex or non-routine problems, questions, or complaints
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
20. Select the choice which best describes your ability and skill in handling various weapons (e.g., firearms and non-lethal).
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
Assessment 2
1. Are you a current Customs and Border Protection (CBP) employee?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current CBP Law Enforcement Officer (i.e., BPA, CBPO, AIA, MIA)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. If you are a current CBP employee seeking reassignment to another duty location or law enforcement officer (LEO) position, we encourage you to request a lateral reassignment or apply to an internal merit promotion announcement rather than applying to this announcement.

Note: Applying to and accepting a job offer under this announcement will require you to accept the grade level stated in the announcement, which might require a change to lower grade action. If you are a current GS-12 step 1 your salary may be reduced to a GL-9 step 10. Re-promotion is not guaranteed. Timeframes and grade level re-promotion are at the discretion of the agency and may be subject to a probationary period. If you are currently receiving a retirement annuity from OPM based on retiring from the Federal government and you are selected for this position, please note that your Federal salary will be off-set by the amount of your retirement annuity.

Do you wish to continue with the entry level process?
 A. Not Applicable, I am a new applicant
 B. Yes, I understand the impact on my pay and promotions of reapplying to the entry level hiring process
 C. No, I do not wish to continue with the entry level hiring process for this application
SUITABILITY:  Applicants who apply for a law enforcement position with CBP are required to undergo a background investigation and polygraph examination as required by the Anti-Border Corruption Act of 2010. CBP conducts a "whole person" analysis in order to determine whether an applicant is suitable. Your responses to the following questions along with the background investigation and polygraph examination will determine your suitability.
4. Are you willing to undergo a polygraph examination for this position?

 A. Yes, I am willing to take a polygraph examination
 B. No, I am not willing to take a polygraph examination
 C. Not applicable, I am a current CBP Law Enforcement Officer (i.e., BPA, CBPO, AIA or MIA)
5. Have you taken and FAILED a CBP polygraph examination within the last two years?
 A. No, I have NOT FAILED a CBP polygraph examination within the last two years
 B. Yes, I have failed a CBP polygraph examination within the last two years
6. Are you willing to undergo a background investigation for this position?

 A. Yes, I am willing to undergo a background investigation for this position
 B. No, I am not willing to undergo a background investigation for this position
7. CBP is committed to a drug-free workplace. This position requires drug testing as part of the pre-employment process and also requires random drug testing after you enter on duty. Note: Several states now allow recreational and medicinal use of marijuana. However, CBP does not permit the use of marijuana as it is still an illegal drug per federal law.

By submitting this application, I acknowledge and understand that I have to successfully pass a drug test during the pre-employment process and that the Agency will remove me from consideration if I do not successfully pass the drug test.  Additionally should I enter on duty as an employee I will be required to participate in random drug testing in accordance with the Agency's drug-free workplace policy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Have you used (including injecting, snorting, inhaling, swallowing, etc.), experimented with, received, purchased, transferred, or distributed marijuana/THC, anabolic steroids, or inhalants OR experimented with, transferred or distributed prescription drugs?
 A. Never
 B. Yes and I understand that I will be required to provide detailed information regarding this, and it will be taken into consideration during my background investigation.
9. Excluding above - Have you used (including injecting, snorting, inhaling, swallowing, etc.), experimented with, received, purchased, transferred, or distributed Schedule I-V controlled substance? Examples of controlled substances include cocaine or crack cocaine (e.g., rock, freebase, etc.), hallucinogenics (e.g., LSD, PCP, mushrooms, peyote, mescaline, etc.), ketamine (e.g., special K, jet, etc.), narcotics (e.g., opium, heroin, etc.),  or stimulants (e.g., speed, crystal meth, ecstasy, etc.).  Drug usage information will be taken into consideration during the background investigation.
 A. Never
 B. 0-3 years ago
 C. 3-7 years ago
 D. 7 or more years ago
FIREARM REQUIREMENT: This position requires that the incumbent meet initial and continuing qualifications in the use of firearms as outlined in the Gun Control Act of 1968, amended by the Lautenberg Amendment of 1996. An applicant whose background includes any of the following will be ineligible for consideration: 1) convicted of a crime punishable by imprisonment exceeding one year; 2) has any outstanding warrants or is a fugitive from justice; 3) unlawful user of or addicted to any controlled substance; 4) adjudicated as a mental defective or has been committed to a mental institution; 5) illegally or unlawfully in the United States; 6) renounced U. S. citizenship; 7) subject to a court-ordered restraining (protection) order from harassing, stalking, or threatening an intimate partner (spouse, former spouse, parent of applicant's child, individual who cohabitates or has cohabitated with the applicant), or child; or 8) convicted under Federal, State, or Tribal Court of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or child.
10. Conviction under Federal, State, or Tribal Court of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or child is disqualifying. An intimate partner means, with respect to a person, the spouse of the person, a former spouse of the person, an individual who is a parent of a child of the person, an individual who cohabitates or has cohabited with the person. Have you ever been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or a child?
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you the subject of any Federal, State, or Tribal court-ordered restraining (protection) order?
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you the subject of any Federal, State, or Tribal court-ordered restraining (protection) order for domestic abuse, including harassing, stalking, or threatening an intimate partner or a child?
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Have you ever been convicted of a felony or crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year?

 A. No, I have never been convicted of a felony or crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year
 B. Yes, I have been convicted of a felony or crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year
14. Have you ever lost your right to possess a firearm for any reason under Federal law?

 A. No, I have never lost my right to possess a firearm
 B. Yes, I have lost my right to possess a firearm but my right has been fully restored under Federal law
 C. Yes, I have lost my right to possess a firearm and my right has NOT been fully restored under Federal law
15. Prior to your 18th birthday did you enter the U.S. illegally and subsequently initiate action to obtain legal status within 24 months after reaching age 18?

 A. Yes, I initiated action to obtain legal status within 24 months after reaching age 18
 B. Yes, I did enter the U.S. illegally but DID NOT initiate action to obtain legal status within 24 months after reaching age 18
 C. Not applicable, I am a U.S. citizen OR I did not enter the U.S. PRIOR to my 18th birthday.
16. After the age of 18, did you ever enter the U.S. illegally, use fraudulent or counterfeit documents to enter the U.S., or intentionally overstay an authorized period of admission to reside, work or attend school in the U.S. without legal immigration status?

 A. No, I did not enter the U.S. illegally, use fraudulent or counterfeit documents to enter the U.S., or intentionally overstay an authorized period of admission to reside, work or attend school in the U.S.
 B. Yes, I did enter the U.S. illegally, use fraudulent or counterfeit documents to enter the U.S., or intentionally overstay an authorized period of admission to reside, work or attend school in the U.S.
 C. Not Applicable, I am a U.S. citizen OR I did not enter the U.S. illegally after my 18th birthday
17. Have you ever been removed or deported from the U.S. after the age of 18?

 A. No, I have never been removed or deported from the U.S. after the age of 18
 B. Yes, I have been removed or deported from the U.S. after the age of 18
18. Are you currently married to or living with any person(s) illegally residing in the U.S.?

 A. No, I am not currently married to or living with any person(s) illegally residing in the U.S.
 B. Yes, I am currently married to or living with any person(s) illegally residing in the U.S.
19. Did you knowingly marry an alien for the sole purpose of that individual obtaining legal immigration status?
 A. No, I did not knowingly marry an alien for the sole purpose of that individual obtaining legal immigration status
 B. Yes, I did knowingly marry an alien for the sole purpose of that individual obtaining legal immigration status
20. Did you knowingly marry a U.S. citizen for the sole purpose of obtaining legal immigration status?

 A. No, I did not knowingly marry a U.S. citizen for the sole purpose of obtaining legal immigration status
 B. Yes, I did knowingly marry a U.S. citizen for the sole purpose of obtaining legal immigration status
21. Have you ever intentionally harbored, concealed, transported or employed an alien(s)?
 A. No, I have never intentionally harbored, concealed, transported or employed an alien(s)
 B. Yes, I have intentionally harbored, concealed, transported or employed an alien(s)
22. Have you ever kidnapped or imprisoned an individual against his or her will?

 A. No, I have not kidnapped or imprisoned an individual against his or her will
 B. Yes, I have kidnapped or imprisoned an individual against his or her will
23. Have you ever been convicted of any crime involving identity theft or the fraudulent use of a credit card including buying, selling, manufacturing, stealing or fraudulently using credit cards to obtain something of value?

 A. No, I have never been convicted of any crime involving identity theft or the fraudulent use of a credit card including buying, selling, manufacturing, stealing or fraudulently using credit cards to obtain something of value
 B. Yes, I have been convicted of a crime involving identity theft or the fraudulent use of a credit card including buying, selling, manufacturing, stealing or fraudulently using credit cards to obtain something of value
24. Have you engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, holding facility, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution as defined by 42 U.S.C. 1997?

 A. No, I have not engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, holding facility, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution as defined by 42 U.S.C. 1997
 B. Yes, I have engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, holding facility, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution as defined by 42 U.S.C. 1997
25. Have you been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or where the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse, or have you been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in such activity?

 A. No, I have not been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or where the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse, or been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in such activity
 B. Yes, I have been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or where the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse, or been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in such activity
26. Are you a current law enforcement officer who is currently under investigation for a use-of-force incident?
 A. No, I am not a current law enforcement officer currently being investigated for a use-of-force incident.
 B. Yes, I am currently a law enforcement officer and am currently being investigated for a use-of-force incident.
27. Have you ever been terminated from a law enforcement position because you were found liable and/or guilty in a use-of-force incident?
 A. No, I have not been terminated from a law enforcement position because I was found liable and/or guilty in a use-of-force incident.
 B. Yes, I was terminated from a law enforcement position because I was found liable and/or guilty in a use-of-force incident.
28. Have you ever deliberately viewed, downloaded, purchased, possessed, sold, or distributed child pornography after the age of 18 (defined as obscene images of a child or children under the age of 18)?
 A. No, I have never deliberately viewed, downloaded, purchased, possessed, sold, or distributed child pornography (defined as obscene images of a child or children under the age of 18).
 B. Yes, I have deliberately viewed, downloaded, purchased, possessed, sold, or distributed child pornography (defined as obscene images of a child or children under the age of 18).
Assessment 3
CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT:  The following questions are regarding CBP's conditions of employment such as appearance and health; examinations, investigations, and tests; fitness and the academy. We expect our employees to uphold these conditions throughout their tenure with CBP.
1. The Border Patrol Agent position requires the successful completion of the following pre-employment requirements:
Polygraph examination
Background investigation
Fitness test
Medical examination
Structured interview
Drug test

Are you willing to complete the above pre-employment requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. The Border Patrol Agent position has medical qualification standards to ensure those tasked with the position's responsibilities are medically, physically and mentally capable of performing the essential tasks and job functions in an efficient and safe manner without endangering the health and safety of co-workers, the public, or oneself as this is a weapons-carrying position.

CBP will schedule, provide, and pay for the required basic medical examination. If medical information is recommended beyond the pre-placement examination, it is provided at the candidate's expense.

I understand that if I receive a tentative selection, I may be required to meet the medical requirements and if travel is necessary to complete the medical screening or medical follow-up is required, I may incur additional expenses.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Due to the strenuous nature of the Border Patrol Agent duties and the associated training programs, fitness tests have been developed and may be used to screen candidates for entry level positions. Candidates may be required to pass the pre-employment fitness test.

I understand that if I receive a tentative selection, I will be required to meet the physical fitness requirements and if travel is necessary to complete the fitness screening, I may incur additional expenses.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. All CBP applicants are required to successfully complete a background investigation. You may be given an opportunity to start your career with CBP earlier, if you elect to enter on duty (EOD) with a provisional clear. A provisional clear is based on the successful completion of certain pre-employment investigation checks. The decision to enter on duty with a provisional clear, if made available, is your decision to make. Should you choose not to enter on duty in a provisional clear status, your application and eligibility for this position will not be negatively affected; however, your EOD date may be delayed. If you EOD with a provisional clear and your full background investigation is not successfully completed, you will be removed from the position with CBP.

If offered a position, do you elect to enter on duty (EOD) under a provisional clear status?
 A. Yes, I DO elect to enter on duty (EOD) under a provisional clear status if offered a position; I further understand that I must successfully complete the full background investigation and will be removed from this position if I am found unsuitable for continued employment
 B. No, I DO NOT elect to enter on duty (EOD) under a provisional clear status if offered a position
5. Will you comply with the following job requirements and/or conditions?
Encounter people experiencing extreme poverty and personal hardships, such as separation from family; witness drownings, vehicle accidents and other tragedies; and occasionally be exposed to people who carry infectious diseases
Work alone in remote areas throughout the night or at times when there is limited communication and high risk of danger
Be assigned on occasion to work on very short notice on a temporary basis, but for an extended period time, away from your permanent duty station
Attend and successfully complete a rigorous 25-week training program in a location away from your current residence that includes certain physical training requirements, as well as a required proficiency in the use of designated firearms, Spanish, and training in the technical and legal aspects of the job
Become proficient in speaking and reading the Spanish language
May potentially be assigned to small, remote locations or areas
Submit to random drug testing after employment
Certify that you will have a valid driver's license at the time of your appointment as a Border Patrol Agent and that you are not prohibited from obtaining a valid driver's license in the United States
Serve a probationary period or trial period in accordance with the Department of Homeland Security policy and the Office of Personnel Management regulations
Qualify and maintain proficiency in the use of firearms
Be exposed to all kinds of weather and environmental conditions, such as contact with potentially harmful substances (hazardous materials), vehicle exhaust fumes, and slippery surfaces; Employees will be provided appropriate personal protective equipment for all of these conditions
Engage in strenuous physical exertion, such as heavy lifting, crouching or crawling in restricted areas, climbing and running
Enforce all Federal laws without exception regardless of your own personal feelings about these laws and regulations
After graduating from the academy, successfully complete the mandatory Field Training Unit (FTU) program which is conducted concurrently with the probationary period
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Do you feel you would be able and willing to use deadly force (e.g., use your firearm) if you found yourself in a "life threatening" situation, to protect your life, the lives of fellow agents, or the lives of innocent bystanders?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. This position requires wearing an officially approved uniform and complying with the Agency's Uniform and Grooming Standards Policy which identify specific requirements related to the employee's hair, facial hair, piercings, tattoos/brandings, etc.  For example, obscene, derogatory and/or gang tattoos or brandings shall not be visible and tattoos and/or brandings on the head and face are not permitted.  The Agency has the right to terminate employees should they enter on duty out of compliance with the Grooming Standards Policy.  Refer to the job announcement for more information and a link to the Grooming Standards.

I acknowledge and understand that should I enter on duty as an employee, I must comply with the Grooming Standards Policy, and if I enter on duty out of compliance, I understand that the Agency will remove me from the position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. It is critical to our mission of protecting our nation's borders and citizens that Border Patrol Agents be available to work at any time. Therefore, it is a condition of employment that all Border Patrol Agents comply with the requirement to be available as part of their regular work schedule on weekends, evenings and nights, holidays and unscheduled overtime as CBP determines necessary.

Would you be able to work a schedule that could include changing your days off within the seven calendar days of Sunday through Saturday?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. U.S. Customs and Border Protection has a residency requirement that applies to all applicants not currently employed by CBP. Individuals are required to have physically resided in the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law) for at least three (3) of the last five (5) years before completing an application for CBP employment. Primary residence is defined as the place where an individual physically resides and the place from which he or she commutes to an official duty station. An individual may have more than one residence (including but not limited to a second home, a vacation home, or an investment property), but can establish only one primary residence. If hired for this position, you will be required to maintain your primary residence in the United States.

If you do not meet the residency requirement as stated above and you have been physically located in a foreign location for more than two (2) of the last five (5) years, you may request an exception to determine if you are eligible for a residency waiver by meeting one or more of the following conditions:
Working for the U.S. Government as a federal civilian or as a member of the military; or
A dependent of a federal civilian or member of the military who was working for the U.S. Government; or
Working as a contractor employee, a volunteer, a consultant or an intern for the U.S. Government, or
Participation in a study abroad program sponsored by a U.S. affiliated college or university

If selected for a position, you must provide documentation to support a request for an exception to the residency requirement.

Do you meet the U.S. Customs and Border Protection residency requirement?
 A. Yes, I have lived in the United States (or one of its territories or protectorates) for at lest three (3) of the last five (5) years prior to submitting this application
 B. Yes, for at least three (3) of the last five (5) years prior to submitting this application, I have maintained United States residency by one or more of the following conditions: 1) worked for the U.S. Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or military capacity or 2) was a dependent of a U.S. Federal or military employee serving overseas
 C. No, I do not meet the residency requirement and am therefore requesting an exception to the policy and I can provide documentation of my eligibility for a residency waiver from a stateside-based company, school, and/or individual(s) who will account for any periods of my residency outside of the United States during at least three (3) of the last five (5) years prior to submitting this application
 D. No, I do not meet the residency requirement and am NOT requesting a waiver for an exception to the residency requirement and I understand that I will not be considered for this job announcement
10. In order to help us better understand our applicants, please select your highest education completed:
 A. High School diploma
 B. Associates degree
 C. Four Year degree
 D. Master's degree
 E. Other
PENALTIES FOR INACCURATE OR FALSE STATEMENTS: The U.S. Criminal Code (Title 18, section 1001) provides that knowingly falsifying or concealing a material fact is a felony which may result in fines and/or up to five (5) years imprisonment. In addition, Federal agencies generally terminate, do not grant a security clearance to, or disqualify individuals who have materially and deliberately falsified these forms. Such actions remains a part of the permanent record for future placements. Your prospects of placement or security clearance are better if you answer all questions truthfully and completely.
11. To ensure the accomplishment of our mission, CBP requires every employee to be reliable, trustworthy, and fit for duty. I hereby certify to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information provided by me is true, correct, and complete and made in good faith. I understand that a false statement on any part of this inquiry may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. False or fraudulent information provided herein is also criminally punishable pursuant to federal law, including 10 U.S.C.1001.

By clicking "Yes" below, I certify that the information I have provided is true to the best of my knowledge.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected