Position Title
Supervisory Emergency Management Specialist
Agency
Federal Emergency Management Agency
Announcement Number
FEMA-TC-12766303-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 16, 2025 to Monday, July 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)

Are you a current or former FEMA Stafford Act employee eligible under the Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)?

Current and former FEMA Stafford Act employees who can document 64 or more hours of paid time, per pay period, with no breaks in service* for 78 or more consecutive pay periods since August 1, 2014, are eligible to be considered for this Merit Promotion Job Opportunity Announcement. (*Note: A "break in service" is defined as 3 or more days in non-pay status, except as allowed under 5 CFR § 315.201(b)(3)(ii) for special circumstances such as military deployment, etc.).

To verify eligibility, you must submit: 
"Notice of DRRA Eligibility" provided by OCHCO.  If you believe you're eligible, but have not received your notice, please reach out to the HR Specialist listed in the announcement.
Your FEMA SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your appointment in the excepted service under the Stafford Act.  We recommend attaching a SF-50 which indicates your highest grade and step.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Current FEMA Employee

Are you a current FEMA employee who currently holds OR has previously held a permanent (not time limited) position in the competitive service?

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your permanent competitive status.  Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions.  You may need to submit more than one SF-50.  Your SF-50 must reflect:
Block 24 - Tenure:  1 - Permanent (career) or 2 - Conditional: AND
Block 34 - Position Occupied:  1 - Competitive Service
If you previously held a career or career conditional appointment, you must provide your current SF-50 and your SF-50 which shows competitive status eligibility.
Please do not submit an award SF-50, as it might not indicate your grade level and step.  
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. FEMA Employees Only Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)
Are you a current or former FEMA employee who is considered displaced or surplus (you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction in Force)?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, your most recent performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. How did you hear about this Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) job opportunity?
 A. USAJOBS
 B. FEMA's Social Media (Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Online Job board (Indeed, Zip Recruiter, etc.)
 D. FEMA.gov Careers Website
 E. FEMA Virtual Hiring Event
 F. FEMA On-Site Hiring Event
 G. College/University/Alumni Organization
 H. FEMA Employee Referral
 I. Other
2. Are you a retiree receiving a federal annuity (either military or civilian)? Or have you accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years? (Select all that apply.)
 A. Yes, I'm receiving a military annuity.
 B. Yes, I'm receiving a civilian annuity.
 C. Yes, I've received a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
 D. No, I am not receiving a federal annuity and have not accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
3. Are you a current FEMA employee?
 A. I'm a current FEMA Local Hire Employee
 B. I'm a current FEMA Reservist Employee
 C. I'm a current FEMA CORE Employee
 D. I'm a current FEMA PFT Employee
 E. I'm a current FEMA Senior Executive Service Employee
 F. I'm not a current FEMA Employee
4. Are you currently serving, or have served within the last five years, as a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) employee in the Executive Branch?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Please provide the following information regarding your political appointment(s): 1. Official Title of Position; 2. Type of Appointment (i.e. Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career SES); 3. Name of Agency; 4. Date Position began; and 5. Date Position ended. (NOTE: If you have never held a political appointment, please enter N/A.)
6. Within the past five years, have you received a buyout or payment through the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment Authority (VSIP) when separating from a federal position?
 A. No
 B. Yes, and I understand candidates who are reemployed with the federal government within five years after receiving a buyout or payment under VSIP are required to repay the entire amount of the incentive prior to their onboarding date.
7. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?

Select "Not Applicable" if this question does not apply to you.
 A. Yes
 B. No, but I have an exemption
 C. I am a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, and have NOT registered with the Selective Service System and do NOT have an exemption.
 D. Not Applicable
2. All FEMA employees are subject to 24-hour on-call in the event of an emergency and all Federal employees may be subject to emergency deployment. In the event of an emergency deployment, travel requirements may be extensive in nature (weeks to months), with little advance notice, and may require relocation to emergency sites, some of which are quite austere. The length of deployment may last anywhere from days to months, depending upon the nature of the emergency or disaster.

Every FEMA employee is considered an emergency manager and each employee has regular and recurring emergency management responsibilities, although not every position requires routine deployment to disaster sites. Your emergency management duties may vary depending on the needs of the Agency, your particular skills, and certain personal circumstances. All positions may require irregular work hours, work at locations other than the official duty station, and may include duties other than those specified in the employee's official position description.

Are you able to meet this commitment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

In order to be hired for this position, applicants must undergo and successfully pass a background investigation. This may include a review of financial issues, such as delinquency, child support and/or tax obligations, as well as certain criminal offenses and illegal use of or possession of drugs.

Are you willing to undergo a background investigation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Your responses to the questions below will be used in the evaluation of your qualifications for this position. Your resume and application materials must support the level of experience and/or education you claim in this questionnaire, If, after a complete review of your application package, a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications, you may be rated ineligible for this position.
1. Please indicate where and when you obtained each of the specialized experience requirements listed in the Qualifications section of this Job Opportunity Announcement. Include in your response: (1) the area of specialized experience; (2) the place of employment; and, (3) the specific dates of employment the experience was gained in MM/DD/YYYY - MM/DD/YYYY format. Your response must be supported by your resume.

Example: Experience in developing and delivering presentations and training; ABC Company; 10/01/2016 - 05/15/2018.
2. Grade 14: Do you have one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the GS-13 level, as described in the vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. From the list below, select the statement(s) that describe(s) your experience and/or knowledge of government contracting and procurement regulations and guidelines.
 A. I have developed Statements of Work (SOWs) that include technical requirements.
 B. I have applied Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR).
 C. I have evaluated proposals as the technical chairperson.
 D. I have served as a technical team member to acquire professional services and products.
 E. None of the above.
4. Select the statement that best describes your leadership and analytical skills and how you have utilized the skills in your employment.
 A. I have developed policies, regulations, procedures and plans for implementation by senior officials in meeting the organization's goals and objectives.
 B. I have prepared and presented analytical information to senior management officials within the organization.
 C. I have developed comprehensive materials for reports, briefings, or meetings of senior management officials.
 D. I have expert knowledge of my organization's goals and objectives, I have developed policies, regulations, procedures, and plans and have articulated them to senior management and implemented them within the organization.
 E. I have written explanations or justifications on decisions, conclusions, findings, and recommendations to management officials within the organization.
 F. I have developed issue papers, policy proposals, policy interpretations, and/or program instructions to address complex program and technical issues to be presented to congress.
 G. None of the above.
5. Do you have work experience in delivering very technical program flood study information to a non- technical audience?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Do you have experience working with or partnering with state, federal, or local jurisdictions to provide controversial data?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) the extent of your knowledge and experience in program and project management.
 A. I have professional certifications in program and project management.
 B. I have formal training and job-related experience applying program and project management practices and techniques, to include Earned Value Management (EVM), Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) and risk management.
 C. I have experience managing performance-based federal contracts as a COR or COTR.
 D. I have experience assisting an organization in transition and change management.
 E. None of the above.
8. From the list below, select the response(s) that describe(s) your experience and working knowledge of FEMA programs.
 A. I have experience/working knowledge of the Cooperating Technical Partners (CTP) program.
 B. I have experience/working knowledge of the Risk Mapping, Assessment, and Planning (Risk MAP) program.
 C. I have experience/working knowledge of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP).
 D. I have experience/working knowledge of the National Dam Safety Program (NDSP).
 E. I have experience/working knowledge of the National Earthquake Hazard Reduction Program (NEHRP).
 F. I have no knowledge of the above FEMA programs.
9. From the list below, select the response(s) that describe your experience resolving inquiries related to NFIP Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs):
 A. Reviewed floodplain management documentation for compliance with the NFIP.
 B. Responded to insurance inquiries concerning NFIP regulatory mapping.
 C. Responded to Congressional inquiries concerning NFIP regulatory mapping.
 D. Provided technical assistance to stakeholders related to the Flood Insurance Rate Map update process.
 E. Resolved specific mapping-related issues raised by property owners.
 F. Resolved specific mapping-related issues raised by local or state officials.
 G. None of the above.
10. From the list below, select the statement that best describes your experience with developing reports.
 A. I have created reports used by senior leadership to inform decisions.
 B. I have worked with technical experts to gather information for reports and/or briefings.
 C. I have summarized reports discussing emergency management operating practices.
 D. I have written reports that have provided guidance to external partners (e.g., those outside of my organization).
 E. I have no experience in this area.
11. Select the statement(s) that describe your experience communicating effectively, both in verbal and written communications, in order to explain and promote assigned program initiatives.
 A. I have maintained good working relationships with key individuals or groups within and outside of my organization.
 B. I have experience communicating in spoken form to convey information concisely and clearly.
 C. I have experience communicating in written form to convey information concisely and clearly.
 D. I have prepared written reports documenting decisions and recommendations.
 E. I have reviewed and edited technical and/or non-technical materials, identifying inadequacies in format, grammar, or construction in accordance with accepted standards..
 F. I have maintained effective working relationships with staff at all levels.
 G. I have dealt calmly and effectively in high stress situations (for example, tight deadlines, hostile individuals, etc.).
 H. I have promoted and maintained good working relationships with key individuals or groups (including co-workers, Human Resources, and contractors) in order to accomplish goals and objectives.
 I. None of the above.
12. From the list below, please select your ability to manage grants, cooperative and/or interagency agreements.
 A. Establishes and maintains liaison relationship with other Federal agencies on matters related to grants and cooperative agreements.
 B. Tracks the execution of grants and cooperative agreements to assure that reporting and milestones are met.
 C. Reviews and improves grant management practices, policies and procedures
 D. None of the above
13. From the list below, select three (3) statement(s) that best describe your oral communication experience.
 A. I have justified, persuaded, or resolved matters involving significant policy or operating program issues.
 B. I have facilitated or led discussions in which I influenced, motivated, or persuaded groups of individuals.
 C. I have led discussions in which the purpose was to plan and consult on work efforts and to resolve operating problems.
 D. I have given presentations on policy interpretations on controversial issues which have regional and/or national implications.
 E. I have delivered speeches conveying senior leadership priorities and decisions to outside organizations.
 F. None of the above.
14. From the following list, please identify the types of teams you have been a part of or led:
 A. Teams comprised of individuals within my organizational unit
 B. Teams comprised of individuals outside my organizational unit
 C. Teams comprised of individuals from non-government organizations
 D. Interdisciplinary teams with individuals from multiple executive branch agencies
 E. Interdisciplinary teams with individuals from executive branch agencies and non-federal partners
 F. None of the above.
15. Describe your experience in a leadership position where you directed the work of a team of people accomplishing a task.
 A. I have held a supervisory position where I assigned work tasks and checked on the progress and quality of the work of other supervisors and staff.
 B. I have held a supervisory position where I assigned work tasks and checked on the progress and quality of the work for a staff of 10 or more.
 C. I have held a supervisory position where I assigned work tasks and checked on the progress and quality of the work for a staff of 5 or more
 D. I have never held a supervisory position where I assigned work tasks and checked on the progress and quality of the work.
16. Select the statement(s) that reflect your experience in the application of performance-based management practices.
 A. I have developed output measures to track the internal performance of work groups that I have supervised.
 B. I have developed outcome measures to track internal performance of work groups that I have supervised.
 C. I have developed outcome measures as indicators of success in achieving the organization's overall program, project purpose, or goal.
 D. None of the above.
17. Select the leadership duties you have performed.
 A. Planned work to be accomplished by employees.
 B. Set and adjusted priorities.
 C. Monitored the progress of the work.
 D. Strategically assigned work to subordinates.
 E. Developed performance standards and evaluated work performance of employees.
 F. Recognized and rewarded employees for their contributions.
 G. Corrected employees’ contributions.
 H. Counseled and/or disciplined employees for conduct issues.
 I. Gave advice, counsel, or instruction to employees on both technical and administrative matters.
 J. Scheduled employees to cover varying shifts.
 K. None of the above.
18. From the list below, select the supervisory task(s) that you have performed on a regular and recurring basis.
 A. Oversaw, directed or developed work to be accomplished by subordinates
 B. Set and adjusted priorities
 C. Prepared schedules for completion of work
 D. Assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees
 E. Gave advice, counsel or instruction to employees on both work and administrative matters
 F. Worked with employees to identify their developmental and training needs based on organizational goals and budget realities
 G. Counseled and/or disciplined employees on conduct issues
 H. Counseled and/or disciplined employees on performance issues
 I. I have not performed any of the above listed supervisory tasks
19. Please take this opportunity to review your question responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you understand this statement, have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected