Position Title
Wildland Firefighter (Aviation - Airtanker Base Technician) - Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Bureau of Land Management
Announcement Number
FADHA-25-12741627-ARE Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, July 11, 2025 to Friday, July 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Career Transition Assistance Plan:  Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced or surplused from the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which I have been or will be separated; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.   
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan: Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am currently in a position at the same grade level or higher than the position being announced; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Battle Mountain, NV
 B. Reno, NV
 C. Wells, NV
 D. Winnemucca, NV
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
5
6
Survey Questions
1. My resume contains the beginning and ending dates (month/year to month/year) and grade level (if federal service) for each period of work experience/employment. I understand failure to adequately include this information may affect my qualification determination for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I consent to the release of information about my ability and fitness for Federal employment by employers, schools, law enforcement agencies, and other individuals and organizations to investigators, human resource specialists, and other authorized employees or representatives of the Federal Government. I understand that for some other sources of information, a separate specific release may be needed, and I may be contacted for such a release at a later date.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I have read the "How to Apply" & "Required Documents" sections and understand that failure to submit any required documents may result in my being found not qualified.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. My resume contains hours worked per week for each position and/or season of experience held. I understand that failure to adequately include this information may affect my qualification determination for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I understand that additional selections may be made from this vacancy, within the same geographical area, by other bureaus from within the DOI, through shared recruiting activities, and my application may be shown to multiple hiring offices. Additional selections for similar positions across the entire Department of the Interior within the local commuting area(s) identified in this vacancy announcement may be made. By applying, I agree to have my application shared with any interested selecting official(s) within the DOI. There is no option to opt-out as my information will not be shared with other hiring agencies outside of the DOI. Applying to this announcement does not replace the need to apply to other job opportunity announcements for which you wish to receive consideration.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. I understand that I must ensure my resume, supporting documents (SF-50 or other official document to verify date of birth), transcripts, fire qualifications (IQCS), etc., are not password protected or contain redacted information that could make my application package ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported in your resume and supporting documents.
1. I possess a valid State driver's license.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I qualify for the GS/GW-5 because:
 A. I have one year of specialized experience, equivalent to GS-4 in the Federal service. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience to qualify for this position.
 B. I have a 4-year course of study above high school in an accredited college or university, leading to a bachelors degree with a major study in Wildland Fire Science, Wildland Fire Training, Wildland Fire Technology or other related fields which included 24 semester hours of coursework such as forestry, range management or conservation, natural resources (except marine fisheries and oceanography). I will provide a copy of my college transcript.
 C. I have an equivalent combination of specialized experience and education as described in the vacancy announcement to qualify for this position. I will provide a copy of my college transcript.
 D. I do not meet any of the above responses.
3. I qualify for the GS/GW-06 because I have one year of specialized wildland fire experience equivalent to the GS-05 level in the Federal service. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience needed to qualify for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Select the answer that best describes your experience recording and tracking retardant deliveries to various fires.
 A. I have performed this task or used this competency numerous times and am highly proficient at applying it to work situations.
 B. I have performed this task or used this competency in paid or unpaid work experience.
 C. I have received training or education in this task or competency.
 D. I have not performed this task or acquired this competency but am willing to learn.
5. Identify the following tasks you have performed while administering a Federal exclusive use aircraft contract in the field:
 A. Ensure compliance with contract specifications as they relate to mission required equipment, systems, and operation.
 B. Maintain contact with contracting officer.
 C. Identify differences between Call When Needed (CWN) and exclusive use contracts.
 D. Conduct pre-flight and post-flight inspections of aircraft and support equipment.
 E. Continuously monitor flight and/or duty hours of pilots, mechanics and fuel truck drivers to ensure that hour limitations are not exceeded.
 F. Initiate and maintain administrative forms.
 G. Monitor work in progress.
 H. Observe, correct, and evaluate Air Tanker Base operations.
 I. Explain safety regulations and work procedures to the contractor or vendor.
 J. Establish layout of Air Tanker Base operations area, maintain inventory and accountability for property, equipment, and personnel for the most efficient response.
 K. Administer SEAT contracts and apply agency guidelines.
 L. Serve as the primary Project Inspector (PI)
 M. None of the above.
6. Identify the tasks related to fire aviation that you have performed as part of a job:
 A. Demonstrate cooperation with others within an aviation fire organization in order to accomplish organizational goals or duties (Others: Air Ops, Air Support or Dispatch).
 B. Work with other team members under stressful and adverse conditions in order to achieve team goals.
 C. Direct work of other aviation employees as needed or on a limited basis in order to accomplish organizational goals or duties.
 D. Display courtesy, tact, and politeness to others while dealing with individuals who may be difficult, hostile, or distressed.
 E. Communicate effectively, both orally and in writing, with management, peers, and/or individuals from the public regarding fire related topics, events, or concerns.
 F. None of the above.
7. Identify the tasks related to fire communications that you have performed as part of a fire job:
 A. Demonstrate cooperation with others within a structured fire organization in order to accomplish organizational goals or duties.
 B. Work with other team members under stressful and adverse conditions in order to achieve team goals.
 C. Communicate and direct the work of other fire employees as changes in priorities occur due to the unpredictable nature of fire suppression activities.
 D. Communicate effectively with management, peers, and/or individuals from the public and contracted module personnel regarding fire related topics, events, or concerns.
 E. Interact with individuals who may be difficult, hostile, or distressed with courtesy, tact and politeness.
 F. Serve as an instructor for a variety of fire and aviation-related training courses.
 G. None of the above.
8. Identify the specialized work related to an airtanker base that you perform as part of a job.
 A. Monitor and/or engage in aviation communications.
 B. Maintain a record of all aircraft time reporting and retardant gallons regarding fire activities.
 C. Monitor fire weather data for changing or hazardous conditions.
 D. Monitor AFF.
 E. Obtain weather observations.
 F. Monitor pilot duty hours and pilot fatigue.
 G. Monitor aircraft status and availability.
 H. Brief pilots and employees about the status of RAMP/Base operations.
 I. None of the above
9. Select the statement that best describes your ability to work well in a team, under stressful and adverse conditions, in order to achieve team goals.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist r train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
10. I have experience providing technical information to the general public or co-workers in the following manner(s):
 A. To individuals on a one-on-one basis
 B. To small groups of less than 20
 C. To groups of more than 20
 D. At conferences or informal meetings
 E. In a training session
 F. None of the above
11. Indicate your level of experience or knowledge of aircraft flight characteristics, capabilities, operating limitations, communications, and navigational systems.
 A. I am considered an expert with aircraft flight characteristics, capabilities, operating limitations, communications, and navigational systems and/or I am an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them because of my experience or knowledge.
 B. I have independently applied my experience and knowledge of aircraft flight characteristics, capabilities, operating limitations, communications, and navigational systems as part of my job without regular consultation with a supervisor or senior employee.
 C. I applied my experience and knowledge aircraft flight characteristics, capabilities, operating limitations, communications, and navigational systems on the job with close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have education or training as it relates to aircraft flight characteristics, capabilities, operating limitations, communications, and navigational systems, but have not yet applied my knowledge on the job.
 E. I do not meet any of the above responses.
12. Select all of the following qualifications you currently hold.
 A. Fixed Wing Parking Tender (FWPT)
 B. Ramp Manager (RAMP)
 C. Fixed Wing Base Manager (FWBM)
 D. Radio Operator (RADO)
 E. Airtanker Base Manager (ATBM)
 F. Loadmaster (LOAD)
 G. Seat Manager (SEMG)
 H. Replace with Aircraft Timekeeper (ATIM)
 I. Aircrew Member
 J. Fork-Lift Operator
 K. None of the above
13. Select the statement that best describes your experience with office computer software:
 A. I use and am proficient in the use of a variety of office computer software, to include most the features in word processing, spreadsheet, database management, and other applications.
 B. I use and am proficient in the use of most of the features in one to two basic office computer software, such as in word processing, spreadsheet, database management, and other applications.
 C. I use and am proficient in the use of most features associated with a word processing software application (e.g., mail merge, tables, database sorting, etc.).
 D. I use a word processing software application for basic typing.
 E. I have little to no experience with office computer software.
14. Select the statement that best describes your experience in using an automated system to view, record, or query reports.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist r train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
15. I have used the following electronic/tracking systems:
 A. Fire weather data
 B. Telecommunications systems (landline phones/FAX/cell phones)
 C. Automated Flight Following (AFF)
 D. Airport weather information
 E. None of the above
16. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected