Position Title
Communications Specialist
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12805386-FDSTD-IMP-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 30, 2025 to Thursday, October 9, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current USCIS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 Yes
 No


2.
The Reemployment Priority List (RPL) is the mechanism DHS uses to give reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees separated by reduction-in-force (RIF), or fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a former USCIS employee?  If so, have you met all of the following criteria?
Registered for the RPL program, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupied a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current/most recent performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent, and
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606
For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, visit 5 CFR 330 Subpart B.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
My SF-50 showing Separation - RIF. If that is not available yet, then official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who is in a permanent position that is in the competitive service (see block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type)?

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of our SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Phoenix, AZ
 B. Tucson, AZ
 C. Fort Smith, AR
 D. Fresno, CA
 E. Imperial, CA
 F. Los Angeles, CA
 G. Sacramento, CA
 H. San Bernardino, CA
 I. San Francisco, CA
 J. Santa Ana, CA
 K. Centennial, CO
 L. Fort Myers, FL
 M. Hialeah, FL
 N. Jacksonville, FL
 O. Kendall, FL
 P. Miami, FL
 Q. Oakland Park, FL
 R. Orlando, FL
 S. Royal Palm Beach, FL
 T. Tampa, FL
 U. Atlanta, GA
 V. Atlanta, GA
 W. Boise, ID
 X. Chicago, IL
 Y. Indianapolis, IN
 Z. Des Moines, IA
 AA. Overland Park, KS
 AB. Wichita, KS
 AC. Louisville, KY
 AD. New Orleans, LA
 AE. Portland, ME
 AF. Camp Springs, MD
 AG. Boston, MA
 AH. Lawrence, MA
 AI. Minneapolis, MN
 AJ. Kansas City, MO
 AK. Lees Summit, MO
 AL. Saint Louis, MO
 AM. Helena, MT
 AN. Lincoln, NE
 AO. Omaha, NE
 AP. Las Vegas, NV
 AQ. Reno, NV
 AR. Bedford, NH
 AS. Mount Laurel, NJ
 AT. Newark, NJ
 AU. Buffalo, NY
 AV. New York, NY
 AW. Charlotte, NC
 AX. Durham, NC
 AY. Cincinnati, OH
 AZ. Cleveland, OH
 BA. Columbus, OH
 BB. Oklahoma City, OK
 BC. Portland, OR
 BD. Philadelphia, PA
 BE. Pittsburgh, PA
 BF. Johnston, RI
 BG. Charleston, SC
 BH. Greer, SC
 BI. Memphis, TN
 BJ. Nashville, TN
 BK. Edinburg, TX
 BL. El Paso, TX
 BM. Houston, TX
 BN. Irving, TX
 BO. San Antonio, TX
 BP. Salt Lake City, UT
 BQ. South Burlington, VT
 BR. Fairfax, VA
 BS. Norfolk, VA
 BT. Seattle, WA
 BU. Spokane, WA
 BV. Yakima, WA
 BW. Milwaukee, WI
 BX. Casper, WY


2.
There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 Yes
 No
 The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.


3.
Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) from the Federal Government within the last 5 years?
 Yes
 No


4.

This job is being posted for individuals who reside within the local commuting area* of the announced duty location on a permanent basis. All candidates must meet this requirement, with the exception of Refugee, Asylum and International Operations (RAIO) overseas employees approved for rotation OR unless on an approved exemption OR at an approved USCIS location. In these cases you can apply for any location.

Do you reside within the local commuting area* of the announced duty location on a permanent basis OR are a RAIO overseas employee approved for rotation OR on an approved exemption** OR at an approved USCIS location***?

*Local commuting area is defined as a distance that you can reasonably travel back and forth daily to the announced duty location from your permanent residence.

**An approved exemption is: military spouses, approved RA, or temporary long distance remote status (documentation required).

***An approved USCIS location is defined as pre authorized space designated for use by the program, office or directorate.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

The address listed on your USA Jobs profile or resume must show that you reside within the local commuting area of the announced duty location.
If on an approved exemption you must provide the most recent approval.
If at an approved USCIS location you must provide the original reporting instructions.
 Yes
 No


5.
If your status changes, requiring you to report to a physical location you may be directed to report to one of the duty locations listed in the original job opportunity announcement without relocation expenses.
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I understand this requirement.
By answering NO to this question, I am asking to be removed from further consideration for this position.
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you a current USCIS employee who opted to take part of the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) and are currently in an Administrative Leave category?
 Yes.
 No.


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
GS-13 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the requirement as described above.


2.
You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.


3.
This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-13. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent?
 Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent.
 No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent.
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.


You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.


4.
Which statement best describes your experience in research and analysis?
 I have applied multiple techniques using research and analysis to solve problems or make decision using classified and unclassified information.
 I have performed in-depth research and analysis to solve problems or make decisions using classified and unclassified information.
 I have fostered the use of research and analysis to solve problems or make decisions using classified and unclassified information.
 I have led mission specific teams in the use of research and analysis to solve problems or make decisions using classified and unclassified information.
 I do not meet any of the options provided.


5.
I have reviewed the implementation of a project or program (e.g., application of new law or procedure) and reported outcomes of my review (e.g., production, quality, service to the public) to senior leaders.
 True
 False


6.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience addressing issues or concerns related to the delivery of technical customer services?
 I reported customer service issues to the appropriate staff for resolution.
 I collaborated with staff on customer requests to resolve issues.
 I developed new methods, approaches and procedures to improve customer services.
 I independently resolved customer support requests across a wide variety of information technology areas (e.g., platforms, operating systems, applications, and desktop configurations).
 I completed education and/or training related to providing technical customer services, but do not have professional experience.
 I have no experience, training, or education related to technical customer services.


7.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience evaluating communications plans to improve impact?
 I have no experience, education, or training related to evaluating communications plans.
 I completed education and/or training related to evaluating communications plans, but do not have professional experience.
 I summarized successes and limitations of a communication plan.|I proposed solutions (e.g. timing or the procedure to release) to improve the impact of communications plans.
 I proposed solutions (e.g. timing or the procedure to release) to improve the impact of communications plans.
 I approved and implemented solutions that improved the impact of communication plans (e.g. revised a Standard Operating Procedure).


8.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience impacting customer satisfaction related to information technology services?
 I diagnosed and resolved problems in response to customer reported incidents.
 I developed customer support policies, procedures, and standards.
 I evaluated the feasibility of adopting new methods to enhance customer satisfaction.
 I completed education and/or training related to information technology customer service, but do not have professional experience.
 I have no experience, training, or education in information technology customer service.


9.
Select the communications activities you have completed.
 A. Managed a team that coordinated workforce communication campaigns
 B. Reviewed current communication plans and identified weaknesses
 C. Prioritized communication needs from portfolios and senior management
 D. Managed social media activities (e.g., drafted posts, monitored responses)
 E. Ensured print, online, and multimedia materials were developed in compliance with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act
 F. Conducted user testing of proposed system changes
 G. None of the above


10.
Choose the statement that best describes your experience organizing or managing projects to meet deadlines.
 I have created strategies to make high quality decisions regarding organizing or managing projects to meet deadlines.
 My work has allowed engagement in defining criteria to direct others in developing platforms for decisions while organizing or managing projects to meet deadlines.
 I consistently support others within the organization to develop techniques to serve as precedents and future best practices in organizing or managing projects to meet deadlines.
 I do not meet any of the options provided.


11.
Which project management tasks have you independently performed?
 A. Established project management standards (e.g., templates, guidelines) used by an entire organization.
 B. Executed established projects set by the executive leadership.
 C. Conducted research to resolve problems that arose during projects.
 D. Prioritized assigned individual tasks.
 E. Reviewed employees' work for technical adequacy.
 F. Provided performance feedback to team members on assigned tasks.
 G. Provided management oversight (e.g., tracking deadlines, monitoring performance) to a team on a project with organization-wide impact.
 H. None of the above.


12.
Which administrative/clerical activities have you performed related to project/program management?
 A. I assisted with the implementation of special projects.
 B. I set up controls and records to assist in presenting statistical information on special programs.
 C. I advised superiors on correspondence management.
 D. I finalized official correspondence to ensure accuracy of content, spelling, format, and grammar.
 E. I monitored the progress of special projects/programs and informed key staff of potential impediments.
 F. None of the above.


13.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience drafting templates for formal correspondence?
 I copied templates for formal correspondence and adjusted them as appropriate.
 I created new templates for others to use, following proper spacing and memorandum structure.
 I completed education and/or training related to developing correspondence templates, but do not have professional experience.
 I have no experience, training, or education related to developing correspondence templates.


14.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience drafting documents, such as memorandums and letters, for signature?
 I completed education and/or training related to drafting documents but do not have professional experience.
 I created templates used by others to draft these documents.
 I followed internal guidance and standards to draft these documents.
 I recommended improvements to the document creation process that were implemented in my organization.
 None of the above.


15.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers?
 I have not had education and/or training in developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents.
 I have had education and/or training in developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers.
 I have developed and formatted written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers under close supervision to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have independently developed and formatted written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers.
 I have supervised others in, or been regularly consulted as an expert in, developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers.


16.
If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "pass," "satisfactory," or better?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. I am a Federal employee but have not received a performance rating.
 D. Not applicable. I am not a Federal employee.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


17.
Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙