Position Title
Blind Rehabilitation Specialist (Admission Coordinator)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBST-12761139-25-FIJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, July 18, 2025 to Wednesday, August 6, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Instructions: We will evaluate your resume, supporting documents, and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you meet the eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and other application documents. You will not be contacted for missing information or documents. All information and documents are due at the time of application.
Basic Requirements
1. English Language Proficiency: Candidates will not be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C. chapters 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA who are not proficient in written and spoken English. See Chapter 2, section D, paragraph 5a, this part.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Education: The individual must have earned:

(a) A bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university with a major field of study in blind or vision rehabilitation, closely related program in rehabilitation, special education for the visually impaired, family and consumer science education, or technology and industrial arts education
OR,
(b) A bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university (without a major field of study as outlined in ((a) above) that included, or was supplemented by, at least one of the following:
At least 30 semester hours of directly related, upper level undergraduate courses (e.g., at least 200-course level or higher, or as identified by the college or university).
One full year of directly related graduate level coursework (typically at least 15 -18 semester hours).
A certificate from an accredited college or university in the core curriculum in orientation and mobility, vision rehabilitation therapy, assistive technology for blind and visually impaired individuals, or low vision therapy and a directly related practicum/internship in the occupation, either included in the degree or post-degree.
Foreign Graduates must have proof of a minimum of a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university (or foreign equivalent, as verified through an independent credential evaluation company), with a specialization in blind rehabilitation.

Do you possess one of the required education requirements below ?
 A. I have a bachelors degree from an accredited college or university with a major field of study in blind or vision rehabilitation, closely related program in rehabilitation, special education for the visually impaired, family and consumer science education, or technology and industrial arts education.
 B. I have a bachelors degree from an accredited college or university (without a major field of study as outlined in (a) above) that included, or was supplemented by, at least one of the following: 1) At least 30 semester hours of directly related, upper level undergraduate courses (e.g., at least 200-course level or higher, or as identified by the college or university). 2) One full year of directly related graduate level coursework (typically at least 15 - 18 semester hours). 3) A certificate from an accredited college or university in the core curriculum in orientation and mobility, vision rehabilitation therapy, assistive technology for blind and visually impaired individuals, or low vision therapy and a directly related practicum/internship in the occupation, either included in the degree or post-degree.
 C. I am a Foreign Graduate, and have a bachelors degree from an accredited college or university (or foreign equivalent, as verified through an independent credential evaluation company), with a specialization in blind rehabilitation.
 D. I am a VHA employee in this occupation on the effective date of this qualification standard and is considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education and certification(s) that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation.
 E. I do not meet the basic education requirements to qualify for this position.
3. Education Information: Provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your education.

1. Name of Academic Institution-
2. City and State of the Academic Institution-
3. Month and Year Degree conferred-

If you have been employed by VHA in this occupation and meet the Grandfathering Provision, simply note "Grandfathering Provision".
4. Certification. BRS applicants must possess at least one active, current, full and unrestricted certification to be eligible for appointment. Certification must be granted by the Academy for Certification of Vision Rehabilitation & Education Professionals (ACVREP), or another equivalent, closely related professional credential in special education or rehabilitation.

Do you possess a certification by the Academy for Certification of Vision Rehabilitation & Education Professionals (ACVREP), or another equivalent, closely related professional credential in special education or rehabilitation?

Please select the appropriate response below.
 A. Yes, I possess a certification in Orientation and mobility training - Certified Orientation and Mobility Specialists (COMS?).
 B. Yes , I possess a certification in Communication and daily living therapy - Certified Vision Rehabilitation Therapists (CVRT?).
 C. Yes , I possess a certification in Low vision therapy - Certified Low Vision Therapists (CLVT?).
 D. Yes , I possess a certification in Assistive Technology - Certified Assistive Technology Instructional Specialists (CATIS?).
 E. No, I do not possess the required certification to qualify for this position.
Grade Requirements: In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met when determining the grade of candidates:
5. Blind rehabilitation Specialist, (Admission Coordinator) GS-12

(1) Experience. In addition to meeting the basic requirements, completion of one year of experience as a BRS equivalent at the GS-11 grade level.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: In addition to the education and experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
(a) Ability to plan, coordinate, and manage applications, admissions and discharges, and ensure provision of the appropriate clinical care for Veterans in an inpatient BRC.
(b) Ability to ensure that cooperative partnerships exist among Veterans, Service members and their families, VHA rehabilitation providers, community providers, and other stakeholders, to support a comprehensive blind rehabilitation program structure.
(c) Ability to develop, maintain, analyze, and present statistical and programmatic data and information related to BRC operations.
(d) Knowledge of budgetary and financial management processes, including VERA reimbursement, catastrophic disability, and beneficiary travel policies.
(e) Ability to perform the full range of supervisory duties, when authorized, which would include responsibility for assignment of work to be performed, competency assessments, performance evaluations, hiring decisions, and recommendations for awards, advancements, and disciplinary actions
 A. Yes, I possess the experience and can demonstrate the above Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities for this grade level. (NOTE: Must demonstrate experience on resume with hours worked per week). Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to meeting the KSAs described at the GS-11 grade level, the candidate must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
 B. No, I do not possess the experience necessary to qualify for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected