Position Title
LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SPEC/SUPV LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SPEC
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MT-12783606-AF-25-262 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 18, 2025 to Tuesday, September 2, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
11
12
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your resume should address each position's requirements, education and experience (general and specialized). Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.
1. Are you a current member of the Montana Air National Guard?
 A. I am currently a permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) T32 employee with the Montana Air National Guard. (Area I NB)
 B. I am currently an indefinite (Tenure 3) T32 or T5 employee or a permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) T5 employee that is also a military member of the MT Air National Guard. (Area II NB)
 C. I am currently a military member or Title 5 temporary (Tenure 0) employee that is a military member of the MT Air National Guard. (Area III NB)
 D. I am not currently a member of the Montana Air National Guard, but AM willing and eligible to join. (Area IV NB)
 E. I am not currently a member of the Montana Air National Guard, NOR am I willing to join.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. GENERAL EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
Must have experience, education, or training involving judgment and/or analytical ability in the logistics field. Experience using computer and automation systems.

Do you meet the general experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these general experiences to be considered for this position)***
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE -OR- EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS FOR GS-11 LEVEL
Must have one of the following:

A) 1-year specialized experience, education or training equivalent to at least the next lower grade level. Must have experience, education, or training which includes identifying activities involving logistical support operations. Experience integrating the actions of a variety of specialized support activities in order to develop a comprehensive logistics plan. Experience monitoring such functions as program planning, resource and fiscal management, training, manpower management, and/or automated data processing to meet the logistics plan. Experience identifying delays or problems and developing corrective actions.

B) Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree

C) 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree

D) LL.M., if related

Do you meet one of the options listed above for specialized experience or education requirements?

*If using experience to qualify, you must address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these specialized experiences*
*If using education to qualify, you must submit transcripts with your application to be considered*
 A. Yes, I meet option A.
 B. Yes, I meet option B.
 C. Yes, I meet option C.
 D. Yes, I meet option D.
 E. No, I do not meet any of the above options.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS FOR GS-12 LEVEL:
Must have 1-year of specialized experience, education or training equivalent to at least next lower grade level of GS-11. Experience in managing the function of the work to be performed. Experience which includes leading, directing and assigning work of personnel.

Do you meet the specialized experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these specialized experiences to be considered for this position)***
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Do you currently meet the rank requirement as indicated in the advertisement?
(Enlisted E6 - E9; Officer O1 - O4)
 A. Yes, I currently meet the rank and military membership requirement as indicated in the advertisement.
 B. Yes, I am an employee with the MT Air National Guard that is willing and eligible for enlistment/reinstatement into the MT Air National Guard within the required rank listed.
 C. No, I am over graded in military rank.
 D. No, I am below the rank requirements as indicated in the advertisement.
 E. No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Air National Guard; but I am willing and eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement in the MT Air National Guard to the ranks indicated.
 F. No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Air National Guard, and I am not eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement to the ranks indicated.
6. What is your current military rank?
7. Please certify that you have accurately and truthfully represented your level of work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and/or education when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. Failure to agree to the statements below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. I certify that my answers are accurate and complete. I accept that if my supporting documentation does not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. I do not wish to certify my answers. I understand that I will not be considered for the position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected