Position Title
Plate Printer Apprentice
Agency
Bureau of Engraving and Printing
Announcement Number
25-BEP-12746683-A Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, June 30, 2025 to Monday, July 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current Bureau of Engraving and Printing employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current BEP employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current BEP employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current BEP employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Fort Worth, TX
2. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other
4. As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal (i.e. final annual performance appraisal issued and signed by appropriate management official) dated within the last 18 months. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these specific requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so. If you fail to provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration. NOTE: If you are wanting to be considered for non competitive reinstatement a performance appraisal document MUST be submitted to be eligible. Type "yes" in the text box below if you are providing a performance appraisal meeting the above requirements with your application. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application meeting the requirement, please provide a reason in the text box below. ("N/A" is not considered an acceptable response).
5. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
6. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
8. Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.
9. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. From the description below, choose the statement that best describes the highest level of experience you possess to perform the duties of a Plate Printer Apprentice, WE-4454-1, without more than normal supervision.
 A. I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex duties associated with intaglio printing. I can follow established procedures to perform my work with a high level of independence, seeking supervisory guidance only for unique situations.
 B. I have ability to perform the full range of duties associated with intaglio printing. I can follow established procedures to perform my work with minimal supervision, referring unique situations to a lead or supervisor.
 C. I have ability to perform common duties associated with intaglio printing. I can follow established procedures to perform my work under general supervision.
 D. I have the ability to perform simple duties associated with intaglio printing. I can follow established procedures to perform my work under close supervision.
 E. I do not have the ability to perform Plate Printer Apprentice duties.
2. To ensure you receive proper credit, please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties. (limit 250 characters)
3. Choose the statement that best demonstrates your experience using and maintaining equipment.
 A. I have experience replenishing consumables used for equipment or machinery as well as identifying and troubleshooting operational issues, making minor repairs, maintaining, and cleaning equipment or machinery.
 B. I have experience replenishing consumables used for equipment or machinery as well as identifying operational issues, maintaining, and cleaning equipment or machinery.
 C. I have experience replenishing consumables used for equipment or machinery as well as maintaining and cleaning equipment or machinery.
 D. I have experience replenishing consumables used for equipment or machinery as well as cleaning equipment or machinery.
 E. None of the above.
4. Choose the statement that best describes your ability to use tools and materials.
 A. I have used my own judgment to select or substitute tools and materials necessary for me to perform my job without the need for approval from a supervisor.
 B. I have used my own judgment to select or substitute tools and materials necessary for me to perform my job with final approval from a supervisor.
 C. I have selected tools and materials necessary for me to perform my job with the assistance of a supervisor.
 D. I have used tools and materials necessary for me to perform my job as assigned by a supervisor.
 E. None of the above.
5. Select all of the following tools and equipment you have experience utilizing as a regular part of your job.
 A. Manual tools
 B. Electric tools
 C. Electric floor jack
 D. Inspection equipment
 E. None of the above
6. Choose the statement that best describes your experience interpreting and following written instructions, specifications, or directives.
 A. I am able to read, interpret, and follow written instructions, specifications, or directives for complex tasks.
 B. I am able to read, interpret, and follow written instructions, specifications, or directives for routine tasks.
 C. I am able to read, interpret, and follow written instructions, specifications, or directives with support in a team-based environment.
 D. I am able to interpret and follow simple directions as presented by a supervisor.
 E. None of the above.
7. Choose the statement that best reflects your experience following various types of instructions or directions.
 A. I have experience following instructions or directions contained in manuals, training guides, online instructions, and training videos.
 B. I have experience following instructions or directions contained in training guides, online instructions, and training videos.
 C. I have experience following instructions or directions contained in training guides and online instructions.
 D. I have experience following instructions or directions contained in training videos.
 E. None of the above.
8. Choose the statement that best reflects your experience following various types of procedures.
 A. I have experience working from blueprints or written specifications as well as following quality control procedures and guidelines, Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), and ISO standards (International Organization for Standardization).
 B. I have experience working from blueprints or written specifications as well as following quality control procedures and guidelines and Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs).
 C. I have experience working from blueprints or written specifications and following quality control procedures and guidelines.
 D. I have experience working from blueprints or written specifications.
 E. None of the above.
9. Choose the statement that best describes your experience determining the cause of defective quality.
 A. I have experience monitoring quality, identifying defects, troubleshooting the source, and implementing corrective action to minimize defects.
 B. I have experience monitoring quality, identifying defects, troubleshooting the source, and making suggestions for corrective action to a supervisor.
 C. I have experience monitoring quality, identifying defects, and reporting defects to a supervisor.
 D. I have experience taking corrective actions, as directed by a supervisor, to minimize defects.
 E. None of the above.
10. Choose the statement that best describes your experience working in a position that requires attention to detail.
 A. I have experience working in a manufacturing environment with strict guidelines for maintaining quality control of the products being made.
 B. I have experience working in a warehouse environment with high levels of quality control for the products in their inventory.
 C. I have worked in jobs that adhere to established quality standards.
 D. I have worked in jobs that require attention to detail.
 E. None of the above.
11. Choose the statement that best reflects your experience with on-the-job safety procedures.
 A. I have experience utilizing Safety Data Sheets (SDS) and following procedures for the proper use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), handling chemicals, hazardous spill clean-up and disposal as well procedures for safely pushing, pulling, lifting, climbing, and handling supplies, materials, and equipment.
 B. I have experience following procedures for the proper use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), handling chemicals, hazardous spill clean-up and disposal as well procedures for safely pushing, pulling, lifting, climbing, and handling supplies, materials, and equipment.
 C. I have experience following procedures for safely pushing, pulling, lifting, climbing, and handling supplies, materials, and equipment.
 D. I have experience following procedures for safely pushing, pulling, lifting, and climbing.
 E. None of the above.
12. Choose the statement that best reflects your experience developing or maintaining effective working relationships.
 A. I have experience working cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal, providing direction, guidance, or assistance to coworkers, engaging others in information sharing to identify potential issues and propose possible solutions, and compromising with others to reach an agreement, settlement, consensus, or solution.
 B. I have experience working cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal, providing direction, guidance, or assistance to coworkers, and compromising with others to reach an agreement, settlement, consensus, or solution.
 C. I have experience working cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal and compromising with others to reach an agreement, settlement, consensus, or solution.
 D. I have experience working cooperatively with others on a team.
 E. None of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected