Position Title
SUPERVISORY INTERDISCIPLINARY (CAP GENERALIST) RECRUITMENT INCENTIVE NEGOTIALBE UP TO 5,000
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12754852 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, June 25, 2025 to Tuesday, July 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0101 - Social Science
 B. 0180 - Psychology
 C. 0185 - Social Work
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the specialized experience and/or education to qualify for the NAF CAP Supervisor Generalist (Supervisory Interdisciplinary) position. Failure to meet the basic requirement(s) and specialized experience or failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.
1. Basic Requirements: 0101 
Which of the following education and/or experience do you have in order to meet the requirements for this position in the 0101 series AND 2 years of experience working in the field of child abuse and domestic abuse.  NOTE: Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position, if you are qualifying based on education.

 A. I have a bachelor's degree or higher in behavioral or social science; or related discipline as appropriate to the position, such as Marriage and Family Therapy; Mental Health Counseling; or completion of a degree from a program accredited by the Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Education Programs (CACREP) AND at least 2 years of direct work experience in the field of child abuse and domestic abuse.
 B. I have a combination of education and experience that provided knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field, including at least 2 years of direct work experience in the field of child abuse and domestic abuse.
 C. I have four years of appropriate experience that demonstrates acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field, including at least 2 years of direct work experience in the field of child abuse and domestic abuse.
 D. I have none of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. Basic Requirements: 0180
Do you have a doctoral degree (Ph.D or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology AND 2 years of experience working in the field of child abuse and domestic abuse. NOTE: Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Basic Requirements: 0185 
Do you have a master's degree in social work from a school accredited by the Council on Social Work Education AND 2 years of experience working in the field of child abuse and domestic abuse. NOTE: Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Specialized Experience: 0101/0180/0185
Do you have at least 5 years' specialized experience in providing clinical counseling, employing various evidence-based and trauma-informed counseling to effectively interview and clinically respond to clients' needs?

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Licensure Requirement
Do you have licensure/certification by a state or U.S. territory that provides legal authority to provide clinical services as an independent practitioner in the fields of Licensed Professional Counseling, Marriage and Family Therapy, Clinical Social Work, Clinical Psychology or Counseling Psychology AND 2 years, full-time clinical experience post independent licensure or certification? A current license must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Tier III Degree Requirement
Which of the following do you possess? Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position.

 A. Master's degree from a program accredited by the Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Education Programs or an equivalent degree.
 B. Master's degree from a program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Marriage and Family Therapy Education or an equivalent degree.
 C. Master's degree in social work from a graduate school of Social Work accredited by the Council on Social Work Education or an equivalent degree.
 D. Doctoral degree in clinical or counseling psychology from an American Psychological Association (APA) accredited university or professional school AND a 1-year APA accredited clinical internship.
 E. I do not any of the degrees identified above.
7. How many years' experience do you have performing the full range of administrative supervisory duties (such as assigning work to subordinates based on priorities; developing and evaluating subordinate employees; interviewing candidates for positions; recommending appointment, promotion, or reassignment; and effecting disciplinary measures)?

 A. I have 5+ years’ experience with the above.
 B. I have 3 to 5 years’ experience with the above.
 C. I have less than 3 years’ experience with the above.
 D. I have no experience with the above.
8. How many years' experience do you have providing non-medical clinical services using various counseling approaches such as behavior modification, client-centered, rational-emotive, family systems, brief solution-focused, and reality therapies?

 A. I have 7+ years’ experience with the above.
 B. I have 5 to 7 years’ experience with the above.
 C. I have less than 5 years’ experience with the above.
 D. I have no experience with the above.
9. How many years' experience do you have identifying family violence; conducting risk assessments and safety planning; and implementing family violence treatment principles for victims and offenders?

 A. I have 7+ years’ experience with the above.
 B. I have 5 to 7 years’ experience with the above.
 C. I have less than 5 years’ experience with the above.
 D. I have no experience with the above.
10. How many years' experience do you have providing clinical supervision (such as advising and providing guidance to clinical providers on risk assessment and case management services and other therapeutic interventions for high-risk clients)?
 A. I have 7+ years’ experience with the above.
 B. I have 5 to 7 years’ experience with the above.
 C. I have less than 5 years’ experience with the above.
 D. I have no experience with the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected