Position Title
Health Technician (Telehealth Clinical)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZP-12778615-25-LL Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 7, 2025 to Thursday, August 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. A current, valid state-issued Driver's License is required for this position. NOTE: We cannot accept photographs, therefore; please do not submit a copy of your license with your application package. If an interview is requested, you will be required to provide a copy of your current, valid state-issued Driver's License.

Do you possess a current and valid state-issued driver's license?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Please provide your driver's license number, issuing state and expiration date. Reminder - Do not include a copy of your license; if referred for interview it may be requested at that time.
If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
5. Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements for appointment as a Health Technician - Telehealth Clinical position in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). Please select the best response.
1. To meet basic requirements as a Health Technician - Telehealth Clinical in the VHA you must have experience, education, or a combination of both. Select the response that best describes your ability to meet the basic requirements. The entry level grade for this position is a GS-5.

 A. Basic Experience: I possess one (1) year of experience in a health care field that demonstrates my ability to perform the work or provides me with an understanding of the work such as, but not limited to, a medical or clinical assistant (or technician) or health technician.
 B. Basic Education: I possess four academic years above high school leading to a bachelor’s degree with courses related to the occupation (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, introduction to health records, etc.). Transcripts Required.
 C. Basic Combination 1: I possess equivalent combinations of experience and education such as six months of experience in the health care field and two years of education above high school that included as least six semester hours in health care related courses such as, biological science, surgical technician courses, nursing assistant, or other courses related to the position; or an associate’s degree in a health care related field. Transcripts Required
 D. Basic Combination 2: I possess equivalent combinations of experience and education such as six months of experience in the health care field and successful completion of a course for health care technicians, hospital corpsmen, or medical service specialist given by the U.S. Armed Forces. Transcripts or other documentation required.
 E. I do not possess any of the experience or education as described in A, B, C, or D above.
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions
2. Are you proficient in spoken and written English?

 A. Yes
 B. No
This section will be used to determine the grade level of the experience and/or education that you possess to qualify for the Health Technician - Telehealth Clinical position. In addition to the experience/education applicants will be required to demonstrate the KSAs at the GS-6 grade level. NOTE: Your resume must support your answers in the occupational questionnaire.
3. GS-5 Level Experience, Education, or Combination: I possess nothing beyond the basic required experience, education or combination of experience and education as a Health Technician - Telehealth Clinical as described in questions 1 above.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. GS-6 Level Experience: I possess at least one full year of experience as a Health Technician - Telehealth Clinical at the next lower level (GS-5) which demonstrates the KSAs related to the duties of the position to be filled. Experience would consist of the following: Scheduling telehealth appointments using an electronic scheduling system; obtaining and documenting patient history and pertinent clinical information in electronic medical records; prepares the telehealth room where the HT readies the equipment for examination, establishes video conferencing connections, makes introductions between patient site and provider site; monitors and maintains electronic schedule of rooms, patients, technologies, and presenters; administers the patient satisfaction survey; cleans and performs minor routine maintenance of assigned telehealth technology. In addition, candidates must demonstrate the following KSAs. (1) Comprehensive knowledge of computer systems and programs to perform a variety of tasks; (2) Ability to communicate, consult, and interact with other members of the healthcare team, external relations, customer service and patient education; (3) Ability to provide and receive guidance and technical direction; (4) Ability to plan, organize, set priorities, work as a team member, and effectively complete assignments; (5) ability to read, interpret, and apply complex written instructions; (6) Knowledge of general clinical policies and procedures in a healthcare environment; (7) Skilled in the use of telehealth technologies for the facilitation of telehealth clinical encounters.

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected