Position Title
Recreation Assistant (Lifeguard)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12813592 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 9, 2025 to Friday, October 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1

Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the professional certifications to qualify for a Recreation Assistant Lifeguard position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. 


1.
Do you hold a current certification for the following 1) Lifeguard Certification, 2) CPR for Professional Rescuers, 3) First Aid to include Automated External Defibrillator and 4) Blood Borne Pathogens
 Yes I have all of the above documented and will be required to show proof of these certifications at the time of the interview
 No I do not have all of the above certifications but am willing to take the certification classes to obtain them within 30 days of my new employee indoctrination
 No I do not have the above documents and I am not willing to obtain them


2.
My working or volunteer experience as a lifeguard can be best described as:
 5 years or more documented experience
 3 to5 years documented experience
 1 to 3 years documented experience
 Less than 1 year of documented experience
 No experience or no documentation of experience


3.
How much experience cleaning and maintaining aquatic facilities have you documented on your resume?
 1+ years of documented experience
 Less than 1 year of documented experience
 No experience or no documentation of experience


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙