Position Title
County Executive Director
Agency
Farm Service Agency
Announcement Number
FSACO-12785181-25-IN-KM Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, August 19, 2025 to Friday, August 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current or former Farm Service Agency Federal or Farm Service County employee? To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent non-award Notification of Personnel Action (Form SF-50 or SF-50B) that provides current position, grade level, and duty location. This is required for both permanent and temporary employees.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. North Vernon, IN
 B. Peru, IN
 C. Richmond, IN
 D. Rochester, IN
 E. Winchester, IN
2. Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. Your answers will be used to determine your eligibility to apply to this job opportunity announcement. You will be considered under the eligibility option(s) to which you answer YES. Select YES to all eligibility options for which you want to be considered. If you respond NO to meeting the criteria for all the eligibilities, you will not be considered for the position(s) under this announcement.

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration for EACH selected eligibility. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration.
Assessment 1
1. You may start at the CO-07 level if you have one of the following qualifications:
Successful completion of one full year of graduate education from an accredited college or university. OR
Superior Academic Achievement: A bachelor's degree in any field of study from an accredited college or university with either:
grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 based on a 4.0 scale;
3.5 GPA based on a 4.0 scale for required courses completed in a major field of study during the last two years of undergraduate study;
class standing of upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision of the college;
membership in a National Scholastic Honor Society certified by the Association of College Honor Societies, excluding freshman honor societies.
An applicant must submit an unofficial copy of their transcript at the initial phase of the application process demonstrating that they qualify based on superior academic achievement. If selected for the position, an official transcript must be provided from the college or university before the applicant entering on duty. OR
One-year specialized experience equivalent to grade CO-5 or GS-5 level. Specialized experience is experience that demonstrates knowledge of basic principles, concepts, and methods of fact-finding, analysis, and problem-solving techniques as they apply to the analysis, evaluation, and application of agricultural program requirements. In addition, knowledge of and skill in applying analytical and evaluative techniques to assist in assessing the effectiveness and efficiency of agricultural program operations to make recommendations for improvements. OR
Six months of experience as a CED or CEDT at the CO-5 level. OR
A combination of education and experience as described above.
 A. I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with a GPA of 3.0 or higher.
 B. I meet the specialized experience requirement for CO-7.
 C. I have less than the full amount of education listed above, and less than the experience described but I have a combination of the type of education and experience.
 D. I have six months of experience as a CED or CEDT.
 E. I do not possess the education and/or experience to qualify for this position.
2. You may start at the CO-09 level if you have one of the following qualifications:
A Master's or equivalent graduate degree or two full academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree from an accredited college or university. OR
One-year specialized experience equivalent to at least grade CO-7 or GS-7 in the federal service. Specialized experience is experience that demonstrates knowledge of agricultural program policies and practices to independently examine applications, supporting documents, and program reports. In addition, experience applying analytical and evaluative techniques to assist in assessing the effectiveness and efficiency of agricultural program operations to make recommendations for improvements. OR
A combination of education and experience as described above.
 A. I have completed a course of study leading to a master's degree or I possess a Master's degree.
 B. I meet the specialized experience requirement for CO-9.
 C. I have less than the full amount of education listed above, and less than the experience described, but I have a combination of the type of education and experience.
 D. I do not possess the education and/or specialized experience to qualify for this position.
3. You may start at the CO-11 level if you have one of the following qualifications:
One-year specialized experience equivalent to at least grade CO-9 or GS-9 in the federal service. Specialized experience is defined as supervisory experience that equipped the applicant with the particular KSA's to successfully perform the duties of the position and is typically in or related to the work of the position being filled. Examples of specialized experience would be experience in an FSA supervisory position, CEDT position, or Program Analyst in Charge (Program Technician in Charge) position within the last 5 years.
 A. I meet the specialized experience requirement for CO-11.
 B. I do not meet the specialized experience requirement for CO-11.
4. You may start at the CO-12 level if you have one of the following qualifications:
One-year specialized experience equivalent to at least grade CO-11 or GS-11 in the federal service. Specialized experience is defined as supervisory experience that equipped the applicant with the particular KSA's to successfully perform the duties of the position and is typically in or related to the work of the position being filled. Examples of specialized experience would be experience in an FSA supervisory position, CEDT position, or Program Analyst in Charge (Program Technician in Charge) position within the last 5 years.
 A. I meet the specialized experience requirement for CO-12.
 B. I do not meet the specialized experience requirement for CO-12.
5. From the descriptions below, choose the response(s) that best describe your experience with applications of agricultural and/or farm program requirements. (Select all that apply)
 A. I have directed the preparation of new or revised procedures, notices, instructions, etc. from broad national directives, spelling out the details, limitations, reporting procedures, and related items which serve as an operational guide for county offices and others concerned with the agricultural and/or farm programs.
 B. I have provided advice to State/County Committees or State Executive Director (SED) on adapting or revising statewide agricultural and/or farm programs, policies and procedures to meet the needs and requirements of the state.
 C. I have made decisions regarding the interpretation and application of program guidelines in situations involving controversial, sensitive, or complex issues.
 D. I have implemented new and revised agricultural and/or farm program policies and procedures.
 E. None of the above.
6. From the descriptions below, choose the response(s) that best describes your experience reviewing farm program operations and recommending comprehensive changes to new farm program policy and provisions. (Select all that apply)
 A. I have written complex reports recommending comprehensive changes or implementation plans regarding new farm program policy and provisions.
 B. I have made recommendations to the state/county committees or other management officials on unusual situations on program policies.
 C. I have served on a task force that provided input on changes to farm program policies.
 D. I have reviewed action plans ensuring responses to reports are timely and comprehensive that will effectively address the deficiencies identified (e.g., County Operations Reviews (COR), National Internal Review (NIR), Farm Loan Programs Risk Assessment (FLPRA), Office of the Inspector General (OIG).
 E. None of the above.
7. From the descriptions below, choose the response(s) that best describes your experience managing and supervising subordinate employees. (Select all that apply)
 A. I am a manager/supervisor for FSA. I carry out daily responsibilities and have accomplished a variety of organizational objectives, solved problems and implemented improvements to increase efficiency and effectiveness of many agricultural and FSA farm programs.
 B. I have served as manager/supervisor and provided a full range of direction and guidance for agricultural and farm programs to a subordinate staff members.
 C. I have led a team performing agricultural functions and insured that assignments, goals, and deadlines were achieved.
 D. I have directed similar or closely related agricultural functions and my experience and training have prepared me to manage an agricultural staff.
 E. None of the above.
8. From the descriptions below, choose the response(s) that best describes your experience maintaining cooperative relationships with stakeholders and the community while recommending ways to improve access to programs through outreach efforts. (Select all that apply)

 A. I have established communication plans to ensure the civil rights of all stakeholders, program participants and the community are protected and strived to meet the needs of all socially disadvantaged individuals.
 B. I have implemented multiple components of an approved outreach plan to underserved producers.
 C. I have actively participated in outreach activities with underserved and socially disadvantaged groups in the agricultural community.
 D. I have attended public meetings with various groups and associations and performed public relations and outreach activities.
 E. None of the above.
9. From the descriptions below, choose the response(s) that best describes your ability to communicate in writing with USDA, State department and other agricultural agencies, as well as producers and  farming communities and stakeholders. (Select all that apply)
 A. I have prepared informative documents (e.g. articles, updates, press releases etc.) to the public on new programs, policies, and trends of a complex nature involving agricultural and/or farm program issues.
 B. I have prepared well-documented reports and provided findings and recommendations for appropriate action.
 C. I have written narratives to support a business plan or term paper on an agricultural, financial, or business topic.
 D. I have responded in writing to inquiries or requests for information.
 E. None of the above.
10. From the descriptions below, choose the response(s) that best describes your behavior in providing informal coaching and developing team members. (Select all that apply)

 A. I have provided constructive feedback and developmental suggestions and encouraged others to help improve their work performance.
 B. I have provided appropriate resources and/or opportunities for the training and development of others.
 C. I have helped identify others’ skill deficits and developmental needs then guided them in the right direction to improve their work.
 D. None of the above.
11. From the descriptions below, choose the response(s) that best describes your experience providing technical leadership and consultation in planning and administering farm loan program or farm program responsibilities. (Select all that apply)
 A. I have served as an agency representative or advisor on a FSA mediation/informal appeal hearing.
 B. I have recommended modifications to FSA policies and procedures to obtain program achievement within the guidelines of national handbooks and regulations.
 C. I have researched farm loan programs or farm program violations and made recommendations for corrective actions.
 D. I have interpreted policy, procedure, and regulations to develop solutions in unique program situations.
 E. None of the above.
12. From the descriptions below, choose the response(s) that best describes your ability to communicate verbally with FSA producers, ranchers, agricultural agencies, and stakeholders.
 A. I have conducted formal stand up training workshops or classes, engaging the audience and obtaining feedback.
 B. I have presented information to groups or individuals in an informal setting (e.g. small group meetings, telephone, over the counter, etc.)
 C. I have held discussions with potential producers to determine which type of service best suited for their needs and helped determine programs for which they may qualify.
 D. I have responded to inquiries from the media, Farmers, Ranchers, agricultural organizations, and/or other government and public interest groups.
 E. None of the above.
13. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your knowledge of FSA farm program or agricultural production and practices. (Select all that apply)
 A. I am knowledgeable of production costs, rates, practices, contract provisions, and performance expectations for specialty and integrated crop and livestock operations and have applied this knowledge to assist in the implementation of FSA farm program and agricultural policy and procedure.
 B. I am knowledgeable of customary crop and livestock production practices such as typical costs of production (fuel, fertilizer, chemical, veterinary, seed, feed, repair, etc.) per unit, typical rates of production, and proven livestock production practices.
 C. I am knowledgeable of FSA programs such as Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) loan rates, Loan Deficiency Payment (LDP) rates/terms, and the current market price of livestock and commodities.
 D. None of the above.
14. From the descriptions below, choose the response(s) that best demonstrates your commitment to customer service. (Select all that apply)
 A. I have grown our team’s customer service capabilities and have promoted a climate and culture for effectively serving the customer.
 B. I have taken proactive steps to prevent issues or problems for the customer.
 C. I have been accessible and regularly shared relevant information with customers.
 D. I listen to concerns of customers and document their complaints to come up with the best suited solutions.
 E. None of the above.
15. From the descriptions below, choose the response(s) that best describes your experience to effectively handle conflicts and negotiations. (Select all that apply)
 A. I have independently identified conflicts with others and effectively adopted solutions to resolve conflicting situations.
 B. I have assisted in identifying conflict situations between individuals and steered them to the appropriate individuals and resources to help resolve situations.
 C. I have helped to de-escalate conflict to defuse tension in hostile situations.
 D. I have performed my work tasks in a way that generates minimal conflict with my peers.
 E. None of the above.
16. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 A. Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 B. No, I do not certify and I understand that by responding “no” to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected