Position Title
Utility Systems Repairer-Operator
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
AK-1537-KATM-25-12795790-LH Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 9, 2025 to Tuesday, September 16, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.

This position is being filled under the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA) local hiring authority. The ANILCA local hiring authority allows federal land management agencies like the National Park Service to give selection preference to eligible local applicants for qualifying jobs with the National Park Service. 
 

Do you meet the eligibility requirements for selection preference under the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA) local hiring authority? 


To be eligible, you must: 

Have lived or worked in or near the locality of the job posting (i.e. the specific location/s you selected) as outlined in the job announcement (see: Areas considered "near") long enough to have acquired local expertise. 
Possess special natural or cultural resource knowledge of the area. 


Your application package or resume must clearly document how you meet these requirements. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. When you applied to this job, did you have any engagement with a National Park Service (NPS) Recruiter?
 A. No. I did not have any engagement with an NPS recruiter.
 B. Yes. I attended an NPS Federal Resume Webinar.
 C. Yes. At a virtual or in-person recruitment or job fair.
 D. Yes. I received an email from an NPS Recruiter.
Assessment 1
1. You must possess a Provisional Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) Water Treatment and Distribution certificate by your entrance-on-duty (EOD). NOTE: If your certification is from another state, you must immediately seek reciprocal certification which must be obtained by the EOD. You must upload your certificate showing the state obtained in, certificate level and issuance date when you apply. If you will receive certification or reciprocal certification after this announcement closes, include the level and expected date obtained in your resume. If you do not meet this qualification, you will be considered ineligible and will not receive consideration for this position. (Screen-Out)

 A. I currently have a Provisional Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) Water Treatment and Distribution certificate, and I will upload a copy with my application. This response includes certificates from other states that have already been reciprocated.
 B. I will have a Provisional Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) Water Treatment and Distribution certificate by the entrance-on-duty (EOD), and I will include the required information mentioned above in my resume. This response includes certificates from other states that will be reciprocated by the EOD.
 C. I will not have a Provisional Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) Water Treatment and Distribution certificate or reciprocal certificate by the entrance-on-duty (EOD).
2. You must possess a 40-hour HAZWOPER certificate by your entrance-on-duty (EOD) for this position. If you do not have current certification before the EOD, you will be considered ineligible and will not receive consideration for this position. From the statements below, please select the one statement that best matches your current 40-hour HAZWOPER certification status. (Screen-Out)

 A. I have a current 40-hour HAZWOPER certificate, and I will upload a copy of this certificate with my application.
 B. I will have a current 40-hour HAZWOPER certificate by the entrance-on-duty (EOD), and I understand that I must list my HAZWOPER course completion date in my resume.
 C. I will not have a HAZWOPER certificate by the entrance-on-duty (EOD).
Thank you for your interest in this position with the National Park Service. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are eligible for this position. Please Note: Applicants must provide sufficient information and detail to demonstrate they possess the special knowledge or expertise required under Public Law 96-487 and 16 U.S.C. 3198. Failure to provide adequate information will result in a determination of ineligibility. This ANILCA vacancy announcement is to fill a Utility System Repairer-Operator position in the excepted service under the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA) hiring authority, Public Law 96-487 and 16 U.S.C. 3198. Eligibility for the position under this hiring authority is determined by your special knowledge of the natural and/or cultural resources of the park or preserve, by having lived and/or worked within areas considered near Katmai National Park and Preserve. Areas considered "near" Katmai National Park and Preserve are Federal Subsistence Areas of Unit 17C, as well as Unit 9A, 9B, 9C, and 9E, to include the communities of Naknek, King Salmon, Dillingham, Clarks Point, Ekwok, South Naknek, Koliganek, Port Alsworth, Nondalton, Pedro Bay, Iliamna, Newhalen, Kokhanok, Igiugig, Levelock, Egegik, Pilot Point, Ugashik, Port Heiden, Chignik, Chignik Lagoon, Chignik Lake, Perryville, and Ivanof Bay.
3. From the statements below, select the response that best describes your ability to meet the special knowledge or expertise requirements for positions filled through this ANILCA vacancy announcement.

 A. I have special knowledge or expertise concerning the cultural and/or natural resources of the park or preserve.
 B. I do not have the special knowledge or expertise described above.
You must possess special knowledge or expertise of Katmai National Park and Preserves natural and/or cultural resources and the management thereof. Your responses to the following questions will be used to determine your eligibility for positions filled through this ANILCA vacancy announcement. Please provide specific details when responding to the questions to include your special knowledge or expertise and the locations in which this knowledge or expertise was gained. Your special knowledge and expertise must have been gained within areas considered near Katmai National Park and Preserve. Areas considered "near" Katmai National Park and Preserve are Federal Subsistence Areas of Unit 17C, as well as Unit 9A, 9B, 9C, and 9E, to include the communities of Naknek, King Salmon, Dillingham, Clarks Point, Ekwok, South Naknek, Koliganek, Port Alsworth, Nondalton, Pedro Bay, Iliamna, Newhalen, Kokhanok, Igiugig, Levelock, Egegik, Pilot Point, Ugashik, Port Heiden, Chignik, Chignik Lagoon, Chignik Lake, Perryville, and Ivanof Bay. Please Note: Applicants must provide sufficient information and detail to demonstrate they possess the special knowledge or expertise required under Public Law 96-487 and 16 U.S.C. 3198. Failure to provide adequate information will result in a determination of ineligibility.
4. Have you lived and/or worked within the area considered near Katmai National Park and Preserve, as outlined above?

 A. Yes, I have lived and/or worked within areas considered near Katmai National Park and Preserve.
 B. No, I have not lived and/or worked within areas considered near Katmai National Park and Preserve.
5. If you answered yes to the question above, you must provide the name of the city/town/village along with the start and end dates of each period you lived or worked in that area. If you lived in multiple cities/towns/villages, list the start and end dates separately for each location. Example: King Salmon, AK, 05/2022 - 02/2024; Port Alsworth, AK, 05/2024 - 01/2025.

6. Tell us about your special knowledge or expertise of the natural and/or cultural resources of Katmai National Park and Preserve. Provide details of your knowledge or expertise, i.e. community history, geographic features, wildlife, safety precautions, weather conditions, etc. Please be specific in your response.

7. Tell us how you obtained your special knowledge or expertise of the natural and/or cultural resources of Katmai National Park and Preserve. Please provide specific details, i.e. personal knowledge such as fishing, professional knowledge obtained through a position held, official training, etc.

8. Your responses to this assessment, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skill, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 B. No, I do not certify, and I understand that by responding “no” to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected