Position Title
Contract Specialist
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLALndMartm-25-12771250-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, July 25, 2025 to Sunday, August 3, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. .

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
9
11
3. Do you have a current (or last) performance rating of at least Fully Successful or the equivalent?
 A. Yes. I am a current Federal employee or have been within the previous 52 weeks and my most recent performance rating of record is at or above the Fully Successful or equivalent level.
 B. I am a current Federal employee but have not yet received a Federal performance rating.
 C. I am not a current Federal employee or have not been during the previous 52 weeks, therefore I do not possess a Federal performance rating.
 D. No. My performance rating is below the Fully Successful or equivalent.
4. Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) in the past 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement
Assessment 1
1. The purpose of this next question is to verify that you meet the Basic Contracting requirements for this position. Please select the best answer that fits your situation. FAILURE TO ANSWER THIS QUESTION WILL MAKE YOU INELIGIBLE.

 A. I have received a Bachelor's degree or above from an accredited educational institution authorized to grant baccalaureate degrees. Non-DLA serviced applicants must submit transcripts. DLA applicants should ensure transcripts are on file in eOPF.
 B. I am a current civilian employee in DoD or member of the Armed Forces, who occupied a GS-1102 position or contracting officer position with authority to award or administer contracts above the simplified acquisition threshold on or before September 30th, 2000.
 C. I do not possess the required education and/or experience to qualify for this position.
2. From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.

 A. For GS-09, I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Knowledge of contracting principles, laws, statutes, regulations and procedures applicable to the acquisition of a variety of supplies and/or services; Working with commonly used contract methods and contract types to prepare pre-award and/or post- award procurement action; Soliciting, negotiating, awarding, monitoring, and/or closing out/terminating assigned requirements; Interpreting and applying policies, procedures, techniques, and evaluation/control methods sufficient to monitor prime and subcontractor performance.
 B. For GS-09; I possess 2 full academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education or master's or equivalent graduate degree or LLB. or J.D.
 C. For GS-11, I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service, which is in or directly related to the line of work of this position. Creditable specialized experience includes: Applying contracting principles, laws, statutes, regulations, and procedures applicable to pre-award and/or post-award actions sufficient for a variety of supplies and/or services; Planning and carrying out pre-award and/or post-award procurement actions; Independently monitors and evaluates prime and subcontractor performance; Using negotiation techniques to solicit, award, monitor, and/or closeout/terminate assigned requirements; Independently communicating through written communications and discussions with vendors/customers.
 D. For GS-11: I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or three (3) full academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M. if related.
 E. I do not possess the specialized experience and/or education to qualify for this position.
In this part you will respond to questions about your experience as it relates to the position for which you are applying. For each task question, choose the level description that best describes your experience and/or training. Your responses must be fully supported within the text of your resume. Failure to properly identify your experience may result in the lowering of your overall score and/or your disqualification for this position.
3. From the following responses, please select the statement that describes your experience performing contract Administration (post-award) on order changes, close outs, and terminations utilizing effective business and technical knowledge and skills.

 A. I have independently performed this work as a central or major part of my work.
 B. I have independently performed this work as an occasional part of my job.
 C. I have performed this work as a central or major part of my work with direction from a supervisor or senior specialist.
 D. I have performed this work as a central or major part of my work and as a senior specialist have assisted other Contract Specialists.
 E. None of the above.
4. From the following responses, please select the statement that describes the duties you have performed on a regular and reoccurring basis related to research and analysis.

 A. I have conducted research and analysis to determine the level of contract performance and/or needs for contract modifications.
 B. I have conducted research and analysis in order to complete negotiations for contract modifications.
 C. I have conducted research and analysis of contract performance and assisted other specialists in the preparation of contract modifications.
 D. None of the above.
5. This position requires the ability to correctly interpret and apply federal laws, rules, regulations, executive orders, and policies. From the following responses, please select the statement that most accurately reflects your experience with contracting laws and regulations.

 A. I have researched federal regulations and policies related to contracting.
 B. I have advised management and contractors on federal regulations and policies related to contracting.
 C. I have experience as an expert in applying and advising management, contractors, and other government officials on federal regulations and policies related to contracting.
 D. None of the above.
6. From the following list of contract administration functions, identify the ones you have performed as part of your regular duties and include the level for which you have performed the function.
• Executed contract modifications
• Obligated/De-obligated funds
• Prepared acquisition strategy documentation
•Created and/or approved official correspondence
• Maintained all project files and ensured compliance with regulations
• Negotiated prices for extra work
• Prepared questions for procurement conferences
• Interpreted contracts or solicitation requirements for contractors
• Reviewed award documents for completeness and quality
• Negotiated production lead time
• Served as a lead on a negotiation
• Experience with Contract Termination

 A. I perform at least 5 of the contracting functions identified.
 B. I perform at least 8 of the contracting functions identified.
 C. I perform all of the contracting functions identified.
 D. I perform less than 5 of the contracting functions identified.
 E. I do not perform any of the contracting functions identified.
7. From the following responses, please select the statement that describes the duties you have performed on a regular and reoccurring basis related to research and analysis.

 A. As a regular part of my job, I have assisted with researching and analyzing information for acquisition planning.
 B. As a regular part of my job, I perform acquisition planning, analysis, and pre-solicitation preparation of procurements and provide solutions for any potential issues that may arise.
 C. As a regular part of my job, I have conducted research and analysis acquisition planning and assisted other specialists in the preparation of pre-solicitation documentation.
 D. None of the above.
8. From the following responses, please select the statement that describes your experience with solicitation, negotiation, and/or administration policies and procedures.

 A. I have experience with routine solicitation, negotiation, and/or administration policies and procedures.
 B. I have experience with solicitation, negotiation, and/or administration policies and procedures. I have advised managers and employees on complex issues.
 C. I have experience with complex solicitation, negotiation, and/or administration policies and procedures.
 D. None of the above.
9. From the following responses, please select the statement that describes your experience preparing and issuing solicitations.

 A. I routinely prepare and issue solicitations with clauses, source selection factors, and amendments as required.
 B. I have prepared solicitations for review prior to release.
 C. I have prepared and issued solicitations with clauses, source selection factors and amendments as required and reviewed the work of others for adequacy and completeness.
 D. None of the above.
10. From the following responses, please select the statement that describes your responsibilities regarding contract negotiations.

 A. As a regular part of my job, I have assisted in negotiating price, contract requirements, and terms and conditions.
 B. As a regular part of my job, I perform contract negotiations for price, contract requirements, and terms and conditions.
 C. As a regular part of my job, I perform and assist others in contract negotiations for price, contract requirements, terms and conditions and ensure the negotiations are incorporated into the resulting contract.
 D. None of the above.
11. From the following responses, please select the statement that describes your responsibilities regarding acquisition planning, analysis, and negotiations of procurement.

 A. As a regular part of my job, I have assisted with acquisition analysis, price negotiation documentation, and negotiations of procurements.
 B. As a regular part of my job I perform acquisition analysis, price negotiation documentation, and negotiations of procurements.
 C. As a regular part of my job I perform and assist others in acquisition analysis, price negotiation documentation, and negotiations of procurements to provide solutions for any potential issues that may arise.
 D. None of the above.
12. From the following responses, identify your experience related to Contract Performance Management. (Select all that apply)

 A. Monitor contracting officer representative's feedback, contractor performance, and contractor compliance with contract requirements.
 B. Complete past performance evaluation to document contractor performance.
 C. Analyze, negotiate, and prepare claims file for decisions.
 D. Recognize factors adversely affecting performance.
 E. Identify process or procedural changes related to contractor compliance requirements.
 F. None of the above.
13. From the list below, select the statement(s) that you have a working knowledge and have performed on a regular and reoccurring basis. (Select all that apply)

 A. Coordinate contract changes in packing and packaging.
 B. Review, advise, and prepare awards and modifications.
 C. Review modification documents and makes changes as required.
 D. Perform contract reviews against established policies.
 E. None of the above.
14. From the list below, select the response which corresponds to the highest level of education you have achieved. Education claimed will be verified prior to selection. If you do not possess or unable to provide proof of education claimed, you may be found ineligible.

 A. I have below a Master's degree.
 B. I have a Master's degree or above.
15. Have you received an honorary or monetary award from your employer (government, military, or private sector) during the last 3 years?

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected