Position Title
Generalist Counseling, Advocacy and Prevention Program Analyst (Quality Assurance)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12798786 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 16, 2025 to Tuesday, September 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Millington, TN
 C. Norfolk, VA
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the specialized experience and/or education to qualify for the NAF Generalist Counseling, Advocacy and Prevention Analyst (Quality Assurance). Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.
1. Which of the following education and/or experience do you have in order to meet the requirements for this position in the 0101 series? NOTE: Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position, if you are qualifying based on education.
 A. I have a four (4) year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor’s degree in behavioral or social science; or related disciplines appropriate to the position.
 B. I have four (4) years of appropriate experience that demonstrates acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 C. I have a combination of education and experience that provided knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 D. I do not possess any of the above.
2. This position requires the incumbent to be Tier III qualified in accordance with SECNAVINST 1754.8. In order to meet this requirement, which one of the following degrees do you possess? Note: you must attach a copy of your related college transcripts in order to be considered for this position.
 A. Master’s degree from a program accredited by the Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Education Programs or an equivalent degree.
 B. Master’s degree from a program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Marriage and Family Therapy Education or an equivalent degree.
 C. Master’s degree in Social Work from a graduate school of Social Work accredited by the Council on Social Work Education or an equivalent degree.
 D. Doctoral degree in clinical or counseling psychology from an American Psychological Association (APA) accredited university or professional school and a 1-year APA accredited clinical internship.
 E. I do not possess one of the degrees identified above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. Do you have licensure/certification by a state or U.S. territory that provides legal authority to provide clinical services as an independent practitioner in the fields of Licensed Professional Counseling, Marriage and Family Therapy, Clinical Social Work, Clinical Psychology or Counseling Psychology AND 2 years, full-time clinical experience post independent licensure or certification? NOTE: A current license must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Which of the following education and/or experience do you have in order to meet the group standards for this position? NOTE: Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position, if you are qualifying based on education.
 A. I have three (3) years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph. D. degree; or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in behavioral or social science; or related discipline as appropriate to the position.
 B. I have three (3) years of specialized experience developing and/or managing a clinical quality assurance program.
 C. I have an equivalent combination of education and specialized experience.
 D. I do not possess any of the above.
5. Do you have experience analyzing program practices to develop new methods and procedures?
 A. I have 4+ years of experience as described above.
 B. I have 3 to 4 years of experience as described above.
 C. I have 2 to 3 years of experience as described above.
 D. I have less than 2 years of experience as described above.
 E. I have no experience as described above.
6. Do you have experience analyzing a variety of data to monitor the quality of clinical care delivered?
 A. I have 3+ years of experience as described above.
 B. I have 2 to 3 years of experience as described above.
 C. I have 1 to 2 years of experience as described above.
 D. I have less than 1 year of experience as described above.
 E. I have no experience as described above.
7. How many years of experience do you have verifying records management and documentation within policy instruction?
 A. I have 3+ years of experience as described above.
 B. I have 2 to 3 years of experience as described above.
 C. I have 1 to 2 years of experience as described above.
 D. I have less than 1 year of experience as described above.
 E. I have no experience as described above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected