Position Title
Case Manager (Internal Detail)
Agency
U.S. International Trade Commission
Announcement Number
MP-25-047-MW Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 12, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
11
12
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
2. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
6. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Do you receive, or have you ever applied for, retirement pay, pension, or other retired pay based on military, Federal civilian, or District of Columbia Government service? (If you are an annuitant, your salary or annuity may be reduced upon employment).
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Have you accepted a buyout from a Federal agency within the past five (5) years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Have you served on a Schedule C appointment or as a political appointee anytime within the last 5 years? Answer to this question is required.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. To qualify for the GS-11: Do you possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level obtained in the federal or private sector which demonstrates at least four of the following: Experience providing information on policies, procedures, and requirements of legal document or case management; experience providing guidance to customers regarding compliance with rules and regulations; experience handling sensitive confidential and business information, ensuring processing is conducted at the appropriate security level; experience preparing a variety of written materials including reports, records, legal procedural summaries; experience entering and maintaining data in databases;

OR

Do you possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or an LL.M., if related?
 A. Yes, I meet the qualification as described above.
 B. No, I do not meet the qualification as described above.
3. To qualify for the GS-12: Do you possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level obtained in the federal or private sector which demonstrates at least four of the following: Reviewing legal documents in electronic case management systems and providing guidance on compliance with Commission or other regulatory filing requirements; identification and proper handling of sensitive or confidential information; serving as a central point of contact for supervisors and other internal offices to provide proper guidance in complex filing scenarios; drafting memoranda for purposes of detailing discreet incidents or making recommendations to senior officials; extensive document analysis skills used to maintain investigation data for office use and for distribution via electronic docketing systems; independently interfacing with internal and external customers to resolve technical filing issues.
 A. Yes, I meet the qualification as described above.
 B. No, I do not meet the qualification as described above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. I certify, that to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in any part of this application, or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001). In addition, my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understanding that responding 'NO" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected