Position Title
BORDER PATROL AGENT (SECTOR PROGRAMS AGENT)
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
USBP-IMP(ROB)-12785816-ASA Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 25, 2025 to Monday, September 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you meet one of the statements below? 
Currently a U.S. Border Patrol GS-1896 employee serving in a permanent CBP GS-1896-12 BPA position with competitive status
Currently a U.S. Border Patrol GS-1896 employee serving in a permanent CBP GS-1896-13 (or higher graded) BPA/SBPA position with competitive status, who is willing to take a voluntary change to lower grade
 
To verify eligibility, CBP employees are strongly encouraged to provide a copy of their most recent SF-50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select a location preference from the list below. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for more information.
 A. Bottineau Station; Bottineau, ND
 B. Duluth Station; Duluth, MN
 C. Grand Forks Station; Grand Forks, ND
 D. Grand Forks Sector HQ; Grand Forks, ND
 E. Grand Marais Station; Grand Marais, MN
 F. International Falls Station; International Falls, MN
 G. Pembina Station; Pembina, ND
 H. Portal Station; Portal, ND
 I. Warroad Station; Warroad, ND
2. Have you engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, holding facility, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution as defined in 42 U.S.C. § 1997?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Have you been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or where the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse, or have you been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in such activity?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
5. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
6. I understand that if selected for this position, I will be on a time-limited temporary promotion or reassignment and may be returned to my permanent or a similar position prior to the not-to-exceed date.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Conviction under Federal, State, or Tribal Court of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or child is disqualifying. An intimate partner means, with respect to a person, the spouse of the person, a former spouse of the person, an individual who is a parent of a child of the person, an individual who cohabitates or has cohabited with the person. Have you ever been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or a child?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Are you the subject of any Federal, State, or Tribal court-ordered restraining (protection) order for domestic abuse, including harassing, stalking, or threatening an intimate partner or a child?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. This position meets the definition of secondary Law Enforcement Officer retirement coverage under the laws and regulations defined in 5 U.S.C. 8331 Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) and General Provisions for Law Enforcement Officers defined in 5 U.S.C. 8402(d), Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS). The criterion is that knowledge, skill and ability in a position deemed to meet primary Law Enforcement Officer special retirement coverage is a mandatory prerequisite to satisfactorily perform the major duties and responsibilities of this job. The conditions for coverage of a secondary position are contained in 5 C.F.R. § 831.904 CSRS and 5 C.F.R. § 842.803 for FERS. As defined by 5 CFR § 831.902 CSRS and 5 CFR § 842.802 FERS, to be eligible for this secondary administrative law enforcement officer Retirement covered position you must have permanently served in a primary law enforcement officer Retirement System covered position, i.e. Border Patrol Agent, GS-1896, CBP Enforcement Officer, GS-1895, Air Interdiction Agent, GS-1881, Marine Interdiction Agent, GS-1801, Aviation Enforcement Agent, GS-1801, or an equivalent private sector law enforcement position.

Do you meet the requirements for a secondary administrative law enforcement position listed above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that by not meeting this requirement that I will be removed from further consideration.
Assessment 1
1. Your Hash ID is used to retrieve your score from an external database. Please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA. (limit 7 characters)
The following question will only be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
2. Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-12 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes: Collaborating with Border Patrol managers in the collection, formulation, and development of Border Patrol objectives; Reviewing Border Patrol data and program metrics and recommending the use or development of best practices; Assisting with specific projects that included enforcement operations, intelligence collection and reporting, administrative and logistical support; Creating reports utilizing information from Border Patrol databases and operations for purposes of formulating budget recommendations.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected