Position Title
Foreign Affairs Specialist
Agency
Missile Defense Agency
Announcement Number
MDA-26-12808477-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, October 7, 2025 to Wednesday, October 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that best describes your level of specialized experience.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (NH-03/GS-13) or equivalent level in the federal service (experience may have been gained in the private sector) with assigned countries, complex weapon systems, weapon technology programs and master plan, and foreign capabilities in order to develop, establish and promote agency’s position on political military matters, international acquisition and security assistance and agency policy with international implications in the Ballistic Missile Defense Systems (BMDS) arena. Proficient in the DoD Acquisition System and various Security Cooperation tools: cooperative research and development, loans, and security assistance in order to identify and inform senior management and Allied participants of potential areas of benefit for cooperative research. Involvement with international politics and attitudes, intra and inter-agency operating procedures and working knowledge of pertinent aspects of technology transfer, foreign disclosure, export control policy, and treaty obligations in order to lead agency technical teams to Allied countries to interpret and enforce policy and procedural aspects of cooperative agreements pertaining to the BMDS. Experience in interpersonal relations in developing and maintaining close working relations with the corresponding ability to apply such knowledge in working cooperatively as part of a team and with Allied partners and industry. Competence with oral and written communication skills and corresponding ability to apply them in order to develop, prepare and present complex material to various groups (from senior level DoD and external agencies to audiences that include foreign participation). My resume clearly demonstrates that I have the experience described above.
 My experience does not meet the requirements listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙