Position Title
Commercial Sponsorship Coordinator - Marketing
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26035 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 29, 2025 to Wednesday, November 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions Of Employment
Completion of the attached questionnaire is required.


1.
I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you reside within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position?

The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 Yes, I reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
 No, I do not reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.


3.
I am willing and able to travel away from my duty location.
 Yes
 No


4.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of Navy Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF) Employment.  This questionnaire is a requirement for your application package and answers must be supported by your resume and/or additional documentation as necessary.  The resume and supporting documents you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are qualified for this position.  Your responses are subject to verification.  We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. Please ensure you read the questions thoroughly and review your responses for accuracy before you submit your assessment.  Failure to respond to the questions(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Select a statement that best describes your work experience in the use of a personal computer, software programs, scanners, emails and website programs.  Working knowledge experience with Microsoft Word, Excel and other computerized programs.
 I have more than three years of work experience that demonstrates an ability to use a personal computer utilizing Microsoft Word, Excel and other software programs; knowledgeable to efficiently use office equipment such as scanners, emails and other computerized programs. My computer experience level is known as an advance user.
 I have one to three years of work experience that demonstrates an ability to use a personal computer utilizing Microsoft Word, Excel and other software programs; knowledgeable to efficiently use office equipment such as scanners, emails and other computerized programs. My computer experience level is known as an intermediate-level user.
 I have less than one year of work experience that demonstrates an ability to use a personal computer utilizing Microsoft Word, Excel and other software programs; knowledgeable to efficiently use office equipment such as scanners, emails and other computerized programs. My computer experience level is known as a basic entry-level user.
 I have no work experience demonstrating knowledge of computerized programs, scanners and email programs.


2.
Select the statement that best describes your work experiences demonstrating your knowledge of federal government Department of Defense (DOD) or Department of Navy policies and regulations governing commercial sponsorship, methods and publicity techniques.
 I have more than three years of work experience with federal government Department of Defense (DOD) or Department of Navy policies and regulations governing commercial sponsorship, methods and publicity techniques.
 I have two to three years of work experience with federal government Department of Defense (DOD) or Department of Navy policies and regulations governing commercial sponsorship, methods and publicity techniques.
 I have one year of work experience with federal government Department of Defense (DOD) or Department of Navy policies and regulations governing commercial sponsorship, methods and publicity techniques.
 I have no federal government Department of Defense (DOD) or Department of Navy work experience.


3.
Select the statement that best describes your work experience engaging with Command, community and business leaders at all levels.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or is normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures
 I have no work experience engaging with Command, community and business leaders.


4.
Select the statement that best determines your work experience and knowledge to plan, organize, coordinate and administer large scale events, complex activities and community events.
 I have more than three years of work experience and knowledge to plan, organize, coordinate and administer large scale events, complex activities and community events.
 I have two to three years of work experience and knowledge to plan, organize, coordinate and administer large scale events, complex activities and community events.
 I have one year of work experience and knowledge to plan, organize, coordinate and administer large scale events, complex activities and community events.
 I do not have the work experience.


5.
Select the statement that best describes your work experiences and knowledge to develop and effectively deliver presentations and/or trainings.
 I have more than three (3) years of work experiences and knowledge to develop and effectively deliver presentations and/or trainings.
 I have two (2) to three (3) years of work experiences and knowledge to develop and effectively deliver presentations and/or trainings.
 I have one (1) year of work experience and knowledge to develop and effectively deliver presentations and/or trainings.
 I have no experience in the development and delivery of presentations and/or trainings.


6.
Select the statement that best describes your work experience collecting and analyzing data and preparing clear, concise and technically sound reports.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or is normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have had education or training in performing the task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have no experience with reports.


7.
How many years of experience do you have to solicit commercial sponsorship, negotiating agreements and prepare after-action reports?
 I have three or more years of experience the solicitation of commercial sponsorship, negotiating agreements and preparing after-action reports.
 I have one to two years of experience to solicit commercial sponsorship, negotiating agreements and preparing after-action reports.
 I have less than one year of experience to solicit commercial sponsorship, negotiating agreements and preparing after-action reports.
 I have no experience in the above.


8.
Select the best statement that will explain your knowledge of Military Marketing Programs. I have worked with Department of Defense (DOD) and knowledgeable with Military Marketing Programs.
 I have not worked with the Department of Defense (DOD) and have no knowledge of Military Marketing Programs.
 I have worked with the Department of the Navy and am knowledgeable in Military Marketing Programs.
 I have worked with the Department of Defense (DOD) and am knowledgeable in working with Military Marketing Programs.


9.
Select the statement that best describes your experience in researching companies, identifying key personnel to contact and negotiating terms for commercial sponsorship / sales.
 I have more than three years of experience in researching companies, identifying key personnel to contact and negotiating terms for commercial sponsorship/sales.
 I have two to three years of experience in researching companies, identifying key personnel to contact and negotiating terms for commercial sponsorship/sales.
 I have one year of experience in researching companies, identifying key personnel to contact and negotiating terms for commercial sponsorship/sales.
 I do not have the experience.


10.
Select the statement that best describes your knowledge and ability to develop surveys evaluate and establish promotional strategies to identify customer needs.
 I have had education or training in performing the task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or is normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise.
 I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.


11.
Select a statement that best describes your work experience in the use of project management (PM), lead-generation, customer service, management (CSM/CSR) or other similar sales/sponsorship/advertising tools.
 I have no work experience demonstrating knowledge of project management (PM), lead-generation, customer service management (CSM/CSR) or other similar sales/sponsorship/advertising tools.
 I have more than three years of work experience that demonstrates an ability to use project management (PM), lead-generation, customer service management (CSM/CSR) or other similar sales/sponsorship/advertising tools. My experience level is known as an advance user.
 I have less than one year of work experience that demonstrates an ability to use project management (PM), lead-generation, customer service management (CSM/CSR) or other similar sales/sponsorship/advertising tools. My experience level is known as a basic entry-level user.
 I have one to three years of work experience that demonstrates an ability to use project management (PM), lead-generation, customer service management (CSM/CSR) or other similar sales/sponsorship/advertising tools. My experience level is known as an intermediate-level user.


12.
Mark the statement which best describes your education as documented on your resume. For any education or certification claimed, a copy of your degree, transcript, and/or certificate must be uploaded in order for it to be considered.
 I hold a four year bachelor's degree in communications, marketing or a related field from an accredited college or university. Documentation transcripts must be uploaded to this application
 I hold a master's degrees or higher in communications, marketing or a related field from an accredited college or university. Documentation transcripts must be uploaded to this application
 No significant educational degree or certificate.
 I have an associates degree in communications, marketing or a related field from an accredited college or university. Documentation transcripts are required.


13.
Do you have the ability to communicate effectively in English, both orally and in writing and possess strong interpersonal communication skills?
 No, I do not have the ability to communicate effectively in English, both orally and in writing, and possess strong interpersonal communication skills.
 Yes, I have the ability to communicate effectively in English, both orally and in writing and possess strong interpersonal communication skills.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙