Position Title
Dentist (General Practice)
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJW-26-12811837-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Saturday, October 4, 2025 to Friday, October 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Dentist (General Practice) position with the Department of the Defense. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you meet the basic eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Dentist (General Practice) at the GP-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have a Doctor of Dental Medicine (DMD) or Doctor of Dental Surgery (DDS) degree from a school approved by the American Dental Association (ADA) or the Commission on Dental Accreditation (CODA) or an accrediting boy recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
The Dentist occupation requires passing of the National Board Dental Examinations (NBDE) which are developed and administered by the Joint Commission on National Dental Examinations (JCNDE) and possess a current, full, and unrestricted license to practice dentistry in a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. Have you passed the NBDE and possess a current, full, and unrestricted license to practice dentistry in a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States? (Note: You must attach a copy of your licensure.)

 Yes
 No


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or qualifying experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of the Dentist (General Practice) at the GP-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service. (Qualifying experience involves the evaluation, prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of diseases, injuries, and disorders of the oral cavity and maxillofacial area. Examples of dentistry experience may include the removal of decay; filling cavities; straightening, extracting, and repairing teeth; treating gum diseases; performing corrective surgery; making measurements/models for dentures to replace missing teeth, administering anesthetics, writing prescriptions; and performing other requirements of the position.)

 I have completed a 2-year residency program in dentistry, oral health, craniofacial sciences, or a related medical science.
 I have two years of professional dentistry experience and/or training, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GP-11).
 I have completed a residency program in dentistry, oral health, craniofacial sciences, or a related medical science AND professional dentistry experience and/or training equivalent to the next lower grade level (GP-11). The combination of my residency program and professional dentistry experience and/or training is equal to or greater than two years.
 I have the education and/or experience as described in A and in B.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙