Position Title
Registered Respiratory Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12801416-25-AB Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 1, 2025 to Thursday, October 9, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical?
 Yes
 No


4.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Registered Respiratory Therapist (RRT) position with the Department of Veterans Affairs - Veterans Health Administration. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification. Your resume will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS
To qualify for appointment as a RRT in VHA, all applicants must meet the following:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
EDUCATION:
I have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care (CoARC) or its successor.

You must submit a copy of your Transcripts with your application. The copy of Transcripts may be official or unofficial, however should contain Your Name, the Institutions Name, City and State as well as the Degree earned and the DATE the degree was conferred. In progress degrees are not eligible.  This information is used to verify qualifications and accreditation. We cannot make assumptions regarding your education.

If your school program was accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care (CoARC) or its successor at the time of graduation, but is no longer listed on the websites, or has changed names, you must provide documentation of accreditation with your application packet. Failure to do so will result in an ineligible rating.

Do you meet the education requirements as indicated above?
 Yes
 No


2.
LICENSURE:
Persons appointed or reassigned to Registered Respiratory Therapist positions in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as a Registered Respiratory Therapist.

Do you hold a current and unrestricted Registered Respiratory Therapist license?
You must submit a copy of a current active license or certification. Expired certifications will not be considered.
 I possess a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as a Registered Respiratory Therapists (RRT).
 I'm currently employed in VHA as a Registered Respiratory Therapists (RRT) and have been determined to be covered by the Grandfathering Provision and may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance level or demoted within the occupation.
 I DO NOT possess a license as described in the above statements.


3.
CREDENTIAL:
Persons appointed or reassigned to Registered Respiratory Therapist positions must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a valid, current, unrestricted credential of Registered Respiratory Therapist from the National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC).

Do you have a current and valid RRT credential?

You must submit a copy of your credential with your application. It must include the following info: Type of credential earned (CRT/RRT), Registration Number, Issue date, Expiration date.  Expired documents will not be considered.

 I possess a valid, current, unrestricted credential from the National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC) as a Registered Respiratory Therapists (RRT).
 I DO NOT possess the credential(s) as described above.


GRADE REQUIREMENT - The following is used to determine the grade requirements for a Registered Respiratory Therapist. Your responses are subject to verification and must be demonstrated in your resume. Please be as detailed as possible in your resume and ensure you demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or knowledge, skills and abilities required for the position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Registered Respiratory Therapist, GS-11 (Full Performance Level)

1. Experience. One year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower (GS-09) grade level, demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level which are: Skill in performing therapeutic modalities related to respiratory care. Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals to help provide favorable patient outcomes. Skill in assessing oxygenation and ventilation. Ability to perform airway management to include artificial airways and mechanical ventilation.
AND 
2. Credential. Hold an active state license and RRT credential.
AND
3. Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs). In addition to the requirements above, candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs in their experience and on their resume:
Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals for complex respiratory care to develop care plans to provide favorable patient outcomes.
Skill in evaluating the efficacies of therapeutic modalities.
Skill in performing advanced airway and ventilation management.
Do you possess the GS-11 level specialized experience and the KSAs as described above?
It must be detailed on your resume to receive credit. Experience plus dates (month and year) of positions will be evaluated for credit.
 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER: Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
* Updated and accurate duties (be as detailed as possible)
* Grade level (applicable for state or federal jobs)
* Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
* Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week).


REMINDER Current, permanent federal employees can submit recent SF-50 from the past 12 months which clearly shows current, permanent federal eligibility. Examples of appropriate SF-50's include:
General adjustment/Cost of living Increase
Within grade increases at the highest grade held
Promotions SF-50's at the highest grade held within the past year
Cash Award, benefit changes or time off Awards 50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted.
Please check your electronic official personnel folder (eOPF) for your most recent SF-50. HR will not contact you for more info or documents. You can attach more than 1 SF50. All current, permanent federal employees applicants must ensure that they have included one or more SF50's showing current, permanent employment status in the past 12 months.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙