Position Title
SUPPLY STORAGE AND DISTRIBUTION SUPERVISOR-Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-690107-12794580-JDH Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 5, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. From the descriptions below, select only one letter from the list below that best describes your highest level of experience and/or training. (If you select A or B, your resume should be able to support your claim; otherwise, you will receive an ineligible rating.)
 A. I am able to perform the most difficult and complex Supply Storage and Distribution Supervisor tasks including technical and administrative supervision over subordinate workers in accomplishing trades and labor work for stocking, storing, issuing, managing, inventorying, and inspecting supplies, participating in meetings and discussions regarding initial planning of current and future work schedules, budget requests, staffing needs, estimates, and recommendations as to scheduling projected work, determining training needs of employees based on current and future requirements, appraises subordinate workers' performance in accordance with regulations., restructures positions when necessary to achieve the most effective and economical utilization of personnel, participates with employees in the development of performance plans for the Material Management Flight.
 B. I am able to perform the full range of Supply Storage and Distribution Supervisor tasks including interface with internal and external customers, and monitors performance to ensure quality service and accountability.
 C. I am able to perform common Supply Storage and Distribution Supervisor tasks including support maintenance by providing control of all items requiring repair or replacement.
 D. I know little or nothing about Supply Storage and Distribution Supervisor work. I do not have on-the-job training or experience in the area.
 E. Failed to Respond
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency during the probationary period, or other disciplinary action, including termination. Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: Understand this warning; have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy; and verified that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.
2. Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and /or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected