Position Title
Medical Records Technician (Health Information Technician)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSS-12813029-26-PCA Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 8, 2025 to Monday, October 20, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
The following statements address your education and experience as they relate to this position. Please select the answer that best describes you. Your application package MUST support your answers.


RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information each job listed: Job title; Duties (be as detailed as possible; Month & year start/end dates (e.g., June 2019 to April 2021); Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week). Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), and 7407(d) Medical Record Technicians must be proficient in basic written and spoken English. You must be proficient in basic written and spoken English in order to perform the duties of this position.

Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Basic Requirement- Education/Experience: To qualify, you must meet one of the following basic requirements:

1) Experience: One year of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, anatomy, physiology, and a general understanding of health records. Six months of the required one year of creditable experience must have provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) needed to perform MRT HIT work; OR

2) Education: An associate's degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, with a major field of study in health information technology/health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy, physiology, legal aspects of health care, and introduction to health records); OR

3) Experience/education combination: Equivalent combinations of creditable experience and education are qualifying towards meeting basic experience requirements.
The following educational/training substitutions are appropriate for combining education and creditable experience: (a) Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, privacy and release of information, the health record, and one year above high school with a minimum of six semester hours of health information technology/health information management. (b) Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, privacy and release of information, the health record, and successful completion of a course for medical technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or hospital training obtained in a training program given by the U.S. Armed Forces or the U.S. Maritime Service, under close medical and professional supervision, may be substituted on a month-for-month basis for up to six months of experience, provided the training program included courses in anatomy, physiology, and health record techniques and procedures.

Please indicate your eligibility below.
 EXPERIENCE: I possess one (1) year of experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology and general understanding of health record, six months of the required one year of experience provided the knowledge, skills and abilities needed to perform MRT work.
 SUBSTITUTION OF EDUCATION FOR EXPERIENCE: I possess two (2) years above high school with a minimum of 12 semester hours directly related to MRT work. (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 COMBINATION OF EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE: I have an equivalent combination of experience and education. The total percentage is equal to at least 100%. (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 I do not have the education, experience, or combination of education and experience to apply. I understand that I will be disqualified.


3.
GS-5 MRT (HIT) Developmental Level 1 Experience: In addition to the basic requirements for employment, you must have one year of experience equivalent to the next lower level, GS-4 that demonstrated the ability to analyze health records for accuracy, completeness, timeliness, consistency, and compliance (e.g., scanned, uploaded, use of correct titles, linked to correct encounters, etc.) with HIM industry standards, policies, procedures, laws, regulations, and accreditation requirement. They perform health record review activities to satisfy external
accreditation requirements and medical center performance measures; OR

Education: A bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education with a major field of study in health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 24 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy & physiology, legal aspects of health care, and introduction to health records);

AND

candidates must demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs):
 
Ability to communicate effectively with internal and external customers.
Ability to utilize health information technology and various office software products used in health information management positions (e.g., Microsoft Excel, electronic health records, and delinquency tracking software).
Knowledge of health record documentation guidelines and industry standards.
Ability to manage priorities and coordinate work to complete duties within required timeframes.
Ability to apply knowledge of medical terminology and human anatomy to fully understand the content of a health record.
Please indicate your level of experience below.
 I meet the experience and demonstrated KSAs for the GS-5 level. This experience is reflected in my resume.
 I do not meet the experience and KSAs as described above. I understand I will be disqualified.


4.
GS-6 MRT (HIT) Experience:
Experience: In addition to the basic requirements for employment, you must have one year of experience equivalent to the next lower level, GS-5 that demonstrated the ability to analyzes, abstracts, maintains, extracts and compiles information from the health record, working under the review of the supervisor. They analyze health records for accuracy, completeness, timeliness, consistency, and compliance (e.g., scanned, uploaded, use of correct titles, linked to correct encounters, etc.) with HIM industry standards, policies, procedures, laws, regulations, and accreditation requirements.

AND

candidates must demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs):

- Ability to navigate efficiently through the health record to locate needed information.
- Ability to analyze health record documentation to ensure compliance with guidelines and industry standards.
- Skill in investigating potential health record errors and making corrections, when appropriate.
- Skill in interpreting and applying health information guidelines and using judgment to complete assignments.
- Ability to follow up on incomplete health record documentation.

Please indicate your level of experience below.
 I meet the experience and demonstrated KSAs for the GS-6 level. This experience is reflected in my resume.
 I do not meet the experience and KSAs as described above. I understand I will be disqualified.


5.
GS-7 MRT (HIT) Full Performance Level Experience:
In addition to the basic requirements for employment, you must have one year of experience equivalent to the next lower level, GS-6 that demonstrated the ability to analyze health records for accuracy, completeness, timeliness, consistency, and compliance (e.g., scanned, uploaded, use of correct titles, linked to correct encounters, etc.) with HIM industry standards, policies, procedures, laws, regulations, and accreditation requirements. They also coordinate and/or perform health record review activities to satisfy external accreditation requirements and medical center performance measures.

AND

candidates must demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs):

- Ability to judge whether medical records contain sufficient information for regulatory requirements; are acceptable as legal documents; are adequate for continuity of patient care; and support education and research needs.
- Ability to take appropriate actions if health record content is not adequate, accurate, timely, and/or reliable.
- Ability to communicate both orally and in writing with individuals or groups, to facilitate compliance with established policies and regulations.
- Skill in using appropriate software and computer applications to analyze and record documentation trends.
- Ability to apply qualitative and/or quantitative methods for assessment and improvement of health records.
- Ability to work independently and utilize problem-solving techniques in the accomplishment of work.

Please indicate your highest level of experience below.
 I meet the experience and demonstrated KSAs for the GS-7 level. This experience is reflected in my resume.
 I do not meet the experience and KSAs as described above. I understand I will be disqualified.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙