Position Title
BUDGET ANALYST
Agency
Defense Threat Reduction Agency
Announcement Number
DTRA-25-12799040-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 11, 2025 to Wednesday, September 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. .

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and are applying a for a promotion?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).



 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and have held a position at or above the target grade for this position?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).


 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
are entitled to veterans preference?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of experience that you fully possess to minimally qualify for this position. Read all the statements completely before making your selection.

 A. I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Experience developing long-range (multi-year) budgetary plans to support broad Agency missions using the Federal Budget Process and the DoD PPBE system; Experience incorporating Agency’s mission, programs, and legislative history to develop budgetary policies in support of program goals; Experience interpreting and applying complex legislative, policy, and regulatory decisions to develop budgetary plans, policies, and guidance for adjusting the budget; Experience representing the Comptroller's viewpoint in formal meetings and dealings with top program and management officials of higher echelons within the Agency to discuss and resolve sensitive budgetary matters. (Experience must be clearly demonstrated in your resume)
 B. I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.
2. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience.

 A. I have extensive experience in the Programming and Budgeting phases of the Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution (PPBE) process, to include all of the following: programming resources across the Future Years Defense Program (FYDP), justifying resources in Congressional Justification Books (CJBs), interpreting and implementing resourcing decisions within authoritative systems, and contributing to a reclama or response to a potential budget reduction.
 B. I have some experience in the Programming and Budgeting phases of the PPBE process, to include two or more of the following: programming resources across the FYDP, justifying resources in CJBs, interpreting and implementing resourcing decisions within authoritative systems, and contributing to a reclama or response to a potential budget reduction.
 C. I have limited experience in the Programming and Budgeting phases of the PPBE process, including at least one of the following: programming resources across the FYDP, justifying resources in CJBs, interpreting and implementing resourcing decisions within authoritative systems, and contributing to a reclama or response to a potential budget reduction.
 D. I have received training on the Programming and Budgeting phases of the PPBE process but have not yet used these skills on the job.
 E. None of the above.
3. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience.

 A. I have led or contributed to efforts to prepare budget briefings at the OSD, Service headquarters, or Agency headquarters level, e.g., congressional committee budget briefings, Program Objective Memorandum (POM) briefings, and Defense-Wide Review briefings.
 B. I have led or contributed to efforts to prepare budget briefings, one level down from the OSD, Service headquarters, or Agency headquarters level (e.g. for DTRA, at the Directorate level).
 C. I have led or contributed to efforts to prepare budget briefings two or more levels down from the OSD, Service headquarters, or Agency headquarters level (e.g. for DTRA, at a Division or Branch level).
 D. I have received formal training in preparing budget briefings but have not applied these skills on the job.
 E. None of the above.
4. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience.

 A. I have applied the DoD fiscal law policies, regulations, principles, standards, and procedures to financial management activities at the OSD, Service headquarters, or Agency headquarters level.
 B. I have applied the DoD fiscal law policies, regulations, principles, standards, and procedures to financial management activities one level down from the OSD, Service headquarters, or Agency headquarters level (e.g. for DTRA, at the Directorate level).
 C. I have applied the DoD fiscal law policies, regulations, principles, standards, and procedures to financial management activities two or more levels down from the OSD, Service headquarters, or Agency headquarters level (e.g. for DTRA, at a Division or Branch level).
 D. I have received formal training in the DoD fiscal law policies, regulations, principles, standards, and procedures but have not applied these skills on the job.
 E. None of the above.
5. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience.

 A. I have experience reviewing all the following documents, including identifying DTRA accounts and impacts: House and Senate committee reports, Authorization Act, and Appropriation Act.
 B. I have some experience reviewing at least two of following documents, to include identifying DTRA accounts and impacts: House and Senate committee reports, Authorization Act, and Appropriation Act.
 C. I have limited experience reviewing the following documents, to include identifying DTRA accounts and impacts: House and Senate committee reports, Authorization Act, and Appropriation Act.
 D. I have received training on the congressional authorization/appropriation process but have not used these skills in my work area.
 E. None of the above.
6. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience.

 A. I have extensive experience utilizing the Enterprise Funds Distribution (EFD) system to process Funding Authorization Documents (FADs) or extensive knowledge of the Agency’s FAD process from receipt of funds through distribution within the Defense Agencies Initiative (DAI) for execution.
 B. I have some experience utilizing the EFD system to process FADs or some knowledge of the Agency’s FAD process.
 C. I have no experience utilizing EFD but some knowledge of the Agency’s FAD process.
 D. I have received training on EFD or funds control but have not yet used these skills on the job.
 E. None of the above.
7. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience.

 A. I have managed budget requirements by allocating, monitoring, and analyzing budgets to meet financial objectives at the OSD, Service headquarters, or Agency headquarters level.
 B. I have managed budget requirements by allocating, monitoring, and analyzing budgets to meet financial objectives, one level down from the OSD, Service headquarters, or Agency headquarters level (e.g. for DTRA, at the Directorate level).
 C. I have managed budget requirements by allocating, monitoring, and analyzing budgets to meet financial objectives two or more levels down from the OSD, Service headquarters, or Agency headquarters level (e.g. for DTRA, at a Division or Branch level).
 D. I have received formal training in budget execution procedures but have not applied these skills on the job.
 E. None of the above.
8. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience.

 A. I have extensive knowledge of all appropriations utilized at DTRA and the associated budget structure for each appropriation (Operation & Maintenance (O&M); Cooperative Threat Reduction (CTR); Research, Development, Test & Evaluation (RDT&E), Procurement, Defense-Wide (P,DW), Military Construction (MILCON). Budget structure includes the level at which funds are requested and received from OSD, e.g., O&M funds are requested and received at the Budget Activity and Sub-Activity Group level.
 B. I have extensive knowledge of at least two appropriations utilized at DTRA and the associated budget structure for these appropriations.
 C. I have extensive knowledge of at least one appropriation utilized at DTRA and the associated budget structure for this appropriation.
 D. None of the above.
9. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your communications experience.

 A. I have a great deal of experience in conveying complex information at the senior management level, e.g., GS-15, O6 or above, via both verbal and written forms.
 B. I have some experience in conveying information at the senior management level via both verbal and written forms.
 C. I have experience in conveying information below the senior management level via both verbal and written forms.
 D. None of the above
10. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience in creating written products.

 A. I am highly experienced in creating, editing, and publishing written products that are read and understood by a broad audience.
 B. I have some experience in creating, editing, and publishing written products that are read and understood by a broad audience.
 C. I have assisted others in the creation, editing, and publishing of written products that are read and understood by a broad audience.
 D. None of the above.
11. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience in oral communication.

 A. I have a great deal of experience and am comfortable in presenting instruction and relaying information to an audience.
 B. I have had some experience with presenting instruction and relaying information in front of an audience.
 C. I have helped others to prepare for public speaking engagements in front of an audience.
 D. None of the above
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected