Position Title
WOC Research Data Scientist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CARX-12819625-26-IC Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, October 21, 2025 to Tuesday, November 4, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
In accordance with VA Notice 22-13: Pre-Employment References Policy, pre-employment reference checks have been incorporated into the selection process. Hiring officials must conduct pre-employment reference checks with a current or previous supervisor prior to HR staff extending a tentative offer.

In the textbox below, please provide the name, telephone number and email address of at least 4 professional references. Two of these references must be a current or previous supervisor. If two supervisory references are not available, provide the name, telephone number and email address of individuals who were in a position to directly observe your work.

Please also indicate in the textbox below if you prefer to be contacted before your current or previous supervisor is contacted, or if you prefer to provide your references upon request.

*Note: Hiring Officials may request alternate/additional references.


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. If using education to qualify, you MUST submit an official or unofficial transcript. From the responses below, select ONE response that best describes how you met the basic requirements for this position.

Note: Experience/Education MUST be substantiated in your resume or transcripts. Failure to provide the required information will render your application ineligible for consideration.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Basic Requirement: All qualified applicants must meet this Basic Requirement for a Research Data Scientist, 1560. Do you possess 1) a graduate degree in mathematics, statistics, computer science, data science, or field directly related to the position; or 2) a combination of education and experience, at least 30 semester hours of courses in a field directly related to this position?
 Yes
 No


2.
Basic Requirement: All qualified applicants must meet this Basic Requirement for a Research Data Scientist, 1560.  Do you possess experience 1)  in research and development of Natural Language Processing and Machine Learning algorithms; and 2) analyzing the performance of predictive models on patient data and accessing patients' records following HIPAA guidelines?
 Yes
 No


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


3.
Do you possess experience organizing data and other necessary information for studies, performing data cleaning, analyses, and write-ups of qualitative and quantitative data?
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


4.
Do you possess experience preparing and writing research results for presentations, publication, and other needed forms of
dissemination?
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙