Position Title
Medical Instrument Technician - Electroencephalograph (EEG)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-12773997-25-MM Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 1, 2025 to Monday, August 11, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. English Language Proficiency: Medical Instrument Technicians must be proficient in spoken and written English.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2.
Medical Instrument Technician - Electroencephalograph (EEG), GS-9

(a) Experience. At least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level, which is directly related to the duties of the position to be filled, and must fully meet the KSAs at that level. In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following technical KSAs and the potential to acquire the assignment specific KSAs designated by an asterisk (*):

(b) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. KSAs 1, 2, and 3 are appropriate for all positions at this level. KSAs 4 and 5 are to be used in accordance with their appropriateness for the specific assignment.


1. Knowledge of the more complex examination and treatment procedures and techniques in order to provide training and supervision in these procedures.

*2. Knowledge of JCAHO and other regulatory requirements.

3. Ability to communicate effectively and professionally with employees at varying grade levels.

*4. Ability to manage and supervise employees.

*5. Ability to provide, or provide for, staff development and training


Do you possess the Experience and Knowledge, Skills and Abilities described above?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Federal Employees, SF-50 reminder to submit with your application. This only applies if you are a Federal Employee.   SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action (if applicable for Time in Grade and/or Eligibility):
Most recent SF-50 if you are a current or former Federal employee
An SF-50 showing your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade
Award 50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted for the purpose of verifying time-in-grade.
Examples of appropriate SF-50's include:
Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or
Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or
SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old
What should I include in my resume? 

Federal Resume Reminder: Please ensure that your resume is in the Federal Format or that it includes all required information. 

Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title, Duties (be as detailed as possible), Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008), Full-time or part-time status (including the number of weekly hours worked per week for each position listed on the resume).Link to Federal Resume: https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/what-to-includeWhat should I include in my resume? Whether you're a current federal employee or new to the federal government, your resume is the primary way for you to communicate your education, skills and experience. The federal government does not have a standard job application. Your resume is your application.

A resume for a federal job is different than one for the private sector.

You must address each of the requirements and qualifications listed in the announcement-write clearly and without jargon. The hiring agency will not make assumptions about what's in your resume.
It requires more detailed descriptions of your work experiences, including experience level and complexity of work and may exceed the private sectors commonly recommended one to two pages.
You must include the start and end dates (month/year) and number of hours worked per week for each work experience.
You should tailor your resume for each federal job you apply for instead of using the same resume.
Before you write your resume

Read the entire job announcement. Focus on the following sections to understand whether you qualify for the position. This critical information is found under:

Duties
Requirements, which lists the Qualifications, and Specialized Experience and Education
How to Apply which will include a link to a preview of an assessment questionnaire, if that is required
How You Will be Evaluated
 

Make sure you have the required experience and education before you apply. Hiring agencies use the job announcement to describe the job and the required qualifications, including:

Level and amount of experience
Education
Training
What to include in your resume? Federal jobs often require that you have experience in a particular type of work for a certain amount of time. Your resume must show how your skills and experiences meet the qualifications and requirements listed in the job announcement to be considered for the job.Include important contact information at the top

Include current contact information. Most job applications require this information:

Full name
Your address
Your email address
Your phone number
 

Read the job opportunity carefully to make sure you have included all required contact information.

Include dates, hours, level of experience and examples for each work experience

For each work experience, make sure you include:

Job title
Start and end dates (including the month and year).
The number of hours you worked per week.
The level of experience-describe the level of responsibility you had, for instance, whether you served as a project manager or a team member helps to illustrate your level of experience.
The amount of experience-use numbers to illustrate the number of people you managed, or the number of years you worked or managed.
Examples of relevant experience and accomplishments. Write your experience by matching your work experiences and accomplishments with language in the job announcement. Your experience needs to address every required qualification and prove that you can perform the tasks at the level required as stated in the job announcement.
Example of work experience (Federal Employment - Please provide grade levels for Federal employment positions)

Program Analyst GS-343-11, January 2009 - Present  40 Hours/Week   $63,000/Year

Describe your experience.
List an accomplishment. For example: "Accomplished  as measured by [Y], by doing [Z]."
Describe your experience.
List an accomplishment. For example: "Accomplished  as measured by [Y], by doing [Z]."
3. CERTIFICATION OF UNDERSTANDING: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C.1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes, I understand the information provided above and certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
 B. No, I do not certify this information and do not wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected