Position Title
Child and Youth Program Training and Curriculum Specialist
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
FFR25-0410A Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 11, 2025 to Sunday, August 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Child and Youth Program Training and Curriculum Specialist. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
1. Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you.
 A. I have a 4-year degree in Early Childhood Education or Child Development AND 3 years of full time experience working with children and/or youth.
 B. A Master's degree with a major in Early Childhood Education (ECE) or Child Development AND a minimum of 1 year of full-time experience working with children and/or youth.
 C. I have a combination of education and experience (e.g. courses equivalent to a major in a field (24 higher level semester hours) appropriate to the position (see above) plus appropriate experience or additional course work that that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of the 4-year course of study described above AND 3 years of full time experience working with children and/or youth.
 D. I have none of the above.
2. What is your highest level of education?
 A. I have a Master’s degree in Early Childhood, Elementary, or Special Education, Child and/or Youth Development, Psychology, Sociology, Home Economics (early childhood emphasis), or a related field of study.
 B. I have a Bachelor’s degree in Early Childhood, Elementary, or Special Education, Child and/or Youth Development, Psychology, Sociology, Home Economics (early childhood emphasis), or a related field of study.
 C. I do not have a degree, but I have a combination of education and experience.
 D. I have none of the above.
3. How many years of experience do you have in guiding and supporting the national accreditation of a child or youth program (e.g., experience with accreditation support, accreditation self-study or site visits)?
 A. I have 3+ years of experience with accreditation standards, as described above, in a Department of Defense (DoD) Child and Youth Program.
 B. I have 1 to 3 years of experience with accreditation standards, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 C. I have 3+ years of experience with accreditation standards, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 D. I have 1 to 3 years of experience with accreditation standards, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 E. I have less than 1 year of experience with accreditation standards.
 F. I have no experience in the above.
4. How many years of experience do you have in curriculum planning and implementation?
 A. I have 3+ years of experience in planning and implementing curriculum in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 B. I have 1 to 3 years of experience in planning and implementing curriculum in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 C. I have 3+ years of experience in planning and implementing curriculum in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 D. I have 1 to 3 years of experience in planning and implementing curriculum in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 E. I have less than 1 year of experience in planning and implementing curriculum.
 F. I have no experience in the above.
5. How many years of experience do you have in training adults?
 A. I have 3+ years of experience in training adults.
 B. I have 1 to 3 years of experience in training adults.
 C. I have less than 1 year of experience in training adults.
 D. I have no experience in the above.
6. How many years of experience do you have in program planning to carry out a variety of programs (e.g., curriculum outlines, curriculum reviews, lesson plans, and/or assessments of program environments)?
 A. I have 3+ years in program planning, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 B. I have 1 to 3 years in program planning, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 C. I have 3+ years in program planning, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 D. I have 1 to 3 years in program planning, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 E. I have less than 1 year of experience in program planning.
 F. I have no experience in the above.
7. How many years of experience do you have in providing guidance and leadership to CYP Professionals (e.g., working as a mentor, program leader, lead teacher, or other supervisory experience)?
 A. I have 3+ years of experience in providing guidance and leadership to professionals, as described above.
 B. I have 1 to 3 years of experience in providing guidance and leadership to professionals, as described above.
 C. I have less than 1 year of experience in providing guidance and leadership to professionals, as described above.
 D. I have no experience in the above.
8. Do you have experience in overseeing the training program of one or more DoD Child and Youth Program areas: Child Development Centers (CDC), Family Child Care/Child Development Homes (FCC/CDH), Youth Programs (YP), and/or Child and Youth Education Services (CYES) (School Liaison)?
 A. I have experience in overseeing the training program in all four DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 B. I have experience in overseeing the training program in at least three of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 C. I have experience in overseeing the training program in at least two DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 D. I have experience in overseeing the training program in one of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 E. I have no experience in the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected