Position Title
Program Manager
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OIT-IMP-12797823-ART Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 12, 2025 to Thursday, September 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-14 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
3. This position requires the ability to operate a Government Owned Vehicle. Do you have a valid, non-restricted driver's license or will you be able to obtain a valid, non-restricted driver's license before the time of appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
5. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
6.

All newly appointed, first-time CBP supervisors are required to complete the mandatory leadership training. The Office of Training and Development will schedule eligible supervisors to attend within the first 90 days of appointment. All newly appointed, first time permanent supervisors shall attain the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to successfully perform their supervisory responsibilities by completing required leadership training in accordance with current agency policy.

NOTE: This training may be waived if previously completed.

Do you acknowledge that you have read and understand the above requirement, including current or former first time supervisors who have previously completed the mandatory training and will not be required to retake the course?

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
8. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-14 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes planning, organizing, coordinating, controlling, and evaluating the activities of an organization; leading large, complex, high-visibility projects, often cutting across organizational lines; developing strategic plans or directives in regards to program development while providing expert and authoritative advice on program issues to higher level officials across an organization and; defining critical quality factors and processing improvements on key initiatives that result in significant improvements in service delivery, reduced operational unit costs, increased quality, and reduced process cycle time.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
Assessment 1
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
1. Do you have experience approving subordinate position selections?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Indicate the extent of your experience recommending process improvements for a program.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have reviewed a program's established process and have made minor recommendations to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of internal operations.
 C. I have reviewed a program's established process and have made large-scale recommendations to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of internal operations as well as to enhance technological pilots.
 D. I have established process improvements, created technological pilots and made recommendations based on the results, and identified and resolved any program gaps.
3. Indicate the extent of your experience leading outreach activities for an organization.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others with event logistics for outreach activities in my organization (e.g., town hall meetings).
 C. I have experience leading small outreach activities for my organization by researching, planning, and executing activities targeted to a variety of groups.
 D. I have extensive experience leading small and large outreach activities for my organization. I have planned events from start to finish and resolved any issues that were presented to me.
4. Indicate the extent of your experience in assigning work to subordinates based on priorities, requirements of assignments, and capabilities of the employees.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had some experience in assigning work as a team lead or acting supervisor.
 C. I have had experience as a supervisor in assigning work to subordinates and adjusting those assignments based on changing priorities and demonstrated skills of employees.
 D. I have had experience as a second- or third-level supervisor in assigning program and project responsibilities to subordinate units.
5. Indicate the extent to which you have developed and maintained effective relationships (liaison) with individuals internal and external to your work group, office, and organization.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have maintained relationships with individuals in my work group or office, primarily in the completion of my regular job duties or in my response to specific inquiries.
 C. I have maintained relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group and office to exchange information, resolve problems, or participate in joint task forces/teams.
 D. I have developed and maintained extensive relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group, office, and organization to resolve problems, plan joint task force/team projects, and establish long-term working relationships.
6. Indicate the extent of your experience in working with customers to identify their needs and to provide advice.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have provided customer service in response to stated needs (for example, I have resolved simple problems, questions, or complaints, and directed non-routine problems, questions, or complaints to the appropriate person).
 C. I have worked with customers and helped them to define their needs. I have met these needs by providing appropriate products or services in a timely manner (for example, providing technical information, nonstandard services, or resolving non-routine problems, questions, or complaints).
 D. In addition to effectively defining and meeting customers' current needs, I have helped them to anticipate future needs. I have routinely followed up with customers to ensure their satisfaction with products or services (for example making modifications or enhancements, providing additional products or services).
7. Indicate the extent of your experience in reviewing completed work products to ensure work priorities, methods, deadlines, and quality requirements were met.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have proof-read and reviewed completed work products from coworkers to identify instances where work priorities, methods, deadlines, or quality requirements were not met.
 C. I have edited and revised completed work products from my work unit to ensure work priorities, methods, deadlines, and quality requirements were met.
 D. I have reviewed and revised completed work products from different work units within my organization to ensure priorities, methods, deadlines, and requirements were met. I have recommended alternate courses of actions, as needed.
8. Indicate the extent of your experience in tracking and controlling a budget.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have entered costs in spreadsheets and standard forms.
 C. I have been responsible for tracking budget transactions and approving budget requests in an organization.
 D. I have had experience overseeing and reviewing budget requests and expenditures for large programs or offices in an organization.
 E. I have had experience in approving budget requests and expenditures for large programs and/or offices in an organization.
9. Do you have experience being responsible for the accountability of multiple assets, some of which are considered sensitive in nature?

 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Indicate the extent of your experience with administrative systems (for example: Personnel systems, payroll systems).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have a basic level of familiarity with the type and layout of the information collected by administrative systems.
 C. I have used, extracted, transformed, and loaded tools to incorporate administrative systems into a data warehouse.
 D. I have trained others on how to use administrative systems, resolved complex issues stemming from the systems, and re-purposed systems to fulfill other functions.
11. Indicate the extent of your experience in expressing facts and ideas in writing in a clear, convincing, and organized manner.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written short responses to routine requests for information.
 C. I have written portions of reports, information papers, and other documents.
 D. I have independently composed written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, and other complete documents based on results of analyses.
 E. I have independently composed written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, documents that recommend changes to programs and procedures for senior management, and other complete documents based on results of analyses. I have edited reports, documents, records, or other materials completed by lower-level employees or peers to verify completeness, correctness, and consistency.
12. Indicate the extent of your experience exercising original thought where there is an established time limit for deliberation and evaluation.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have provided my supervisor original ideas to resolve simple issues within an established time limit.
 C. I have exercised original thought where there is an established time limit for deliberation and evaluation. My ideas were well received by my superiors.
 D. I have taken conceptual ideas and created original solutions within an established time limit for deliberation, consultation, and evaluation. My ideas were well received by my organization.
13. Select the choice that best represents your knowledge of advanced technological requirements necessary to meet an organization's demand for products and services.

 A. I have had no knowledge or training in advanced technological requirements.
 B. I have received training related to advanced technological requirements, but I have not applied this training on the job.
 C. I have working knowledge of advanced technological requirements and have applied this knowledge to the routine functions of my job.
 D. I have expert knowledge of advanced technological requirements and have applied this knowledge to improve an organization's technological capabilities.
14. Do you have experience involving large scale technology design and construction support related to facilities installation, operations, and maintenance?

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected