Position Title
Director Counterparty Risk
Agency
Government National Mortgage Association (Ginnie Mae)
Announcement Number
25-HUD-12790840 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 19, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency covered by an OPM Interchange agreement that conveys noncompetitive eligibility?

For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=InterchangeAgreementsWithOtherMeritSystems

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following merit promotion categories?
Current Federal civilian employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current Excepted service employee covered by an Interchange Agreement
Former Federal employee with Reinstatement eligibility
Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA)
Current Federal employee serving on a VRA appointment
Land Management Employee eligible under Public Law 114-47
Other competitive category not listed above (you must submit proof of eligibility)
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you eligible to be appointed under the Military Spouse Noncompetitive Appointing Authority based on any of the following categories?
You are the spouse of an active duty member of the Armed Forces.
You are the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs.
You are the widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status, and you have not re-married.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources. (https://www.usajobs.gov/Veterans)

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a former federal employee that has been separated for at least one full year and is eligible to be non-competitively reinstated to a higher grade or full-performance level than which you left federal employment?
(Note: you MUST provide:  1) a copy of your separation SF-50 (the "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2"); AND 2) the last performance appraisal you received from your federal employment which shows at least a fully successful rating.)

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Do you currently hold (or have you previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you eligible under any other miscellaneous appointing authority not listed thus far, such as (but not all inclusive to):
Postal Career Service Employee;
Postal Rate Commission Employee;
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; 
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee; or 
Foreign overseas employee or eligible family member of former overseas employee
 For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=MiscellaneousAuthoritiesNotRegulated .  To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

For more information on Foreign overseas employment please review the following: https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#NontemporaryForeignService or https://www.state.gov/global-community-liaison-office/family-member-employment/family-member-employment-in-the-d-c-area/non-competitive-eligibility-nce/#NCE5
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you eligible for consideration as a Peace Corps, VISTA, or Action volunteer?  If you select this option, you are required to provide acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility by submitting proof of employment from the appropriate agency with your completed application.
National Service (Peace Corps and VISTA)

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
3. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
5. I am interested in having my application shared with other HUD hiring managers. I understand that electing this option will not impact my chances of selection from this vacancy announcement and does not guarantee that a similar vacancy announcement will be opened by another hiring manager for which I can be considered or selected. Please select one or more of the following HUD Program Offices that you authorize to receive your application information. If you do not wish for your application to be shared, please select "Please do not share my application information with other HUD hiring managers.
 A. Center for Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships
 B. Congressional/Intergovernmental Relations
 C. Ginnie Mae (GNMA)
 D. Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration
 E. Office of the Chief Financial Officer (OCFO)
 F. Office of the Chief Human Capital Officer (OCHCO)
 G. Office of the Chief Information Officer (OCIO)
 H. Office of the Chief Procurement Officer (OCPO)
 I. Office of Community Planning and Development (CPD)
 J. Office of Departmental Equal Employment Opportunity (ODEEO)
 K. Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity (FHEO)
 L. Office of Field Policy and Management (FPM)
 M. Office of General Counsel (OGC)
 N. Office of Housing
 O. Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes (OLHCHH)
 P. Office of Policy Development and Research (PD&R)
 Q. Office of Public Affairs (OPA)
 R. Office of the Secretary
 S. Public and Indian Housing (PIH)
 T. Please do not share my application information with other HUD hiring managers.
6. How did you find out about this position?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other
7. Please provide any specifics on your response(s) above.
Performance Appraisal
1. As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of all pages of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal, dated within the last 12 months, that includes the final rating. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these specific requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so in the next question. If you do not provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application, you will need to provide a reason in the text box below.

(Note: If you answer "NO" to this question, you must provide a reason as to why you were not able to provide a performance appraisal in the text box of the following question)

Have you submitted a copy of all pages of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal, dated within the last 12 months, that includes the final rating?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. If you answered "NO" to the previous question, please provide a reason as to why you were not able to provide a performance appraisal in the text box below.
Assessment 1
To be qualified for this position at the GS-15 level, you must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 level that has equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled.

Specialized Experience includes performing corporate credit analysis for counterparties and to develop policies and procedures to help minimize the occurrence of defaults. Examples of such experience could include:

- Developing counterparty risk policies.; OR
- Analyzing the financial health or continuity of financial organizations.; OR
- Leading project teams to analyze risk of activities and portfolios.; OR
- Evaluating the modification of existing policies and practices regarding counterparty risk management.
1. Select the answer that best describes your experience as it directly relates to the statement above. Carefully review your application and ensure that your response is supported by your resume.
 A. I have one full year or more of specialized experience equivalent to the descriptions noted above.
 B. I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definitions described above.
1a. Please give the dates/resume reference when you gained this experience so that it may be found to ensure you receive proper credit. (limit 250 characters)
2. Select the responses that best describe your experience. Select all that apply.
 A. I have helped create benchmarks to measure the performance of issuers of federally backed mortgage securities.
 B. I have helped to determine the financial health of an issuing financial organization.
 C. I have identified troubled institutions.
 D. I have helped to develop remediation workout plans to help reduce credit defaults.
 E. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. Have you advised senior management on counterparty risk management and industry best practices?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3a. Indicate the dates and times from your resume to ensure proper credit is received. (limit 250 characters)
4. Choose the response that best describes your experience developing innovative approaches and strategies to quantify counterparty credit risks.
 A. I have developed methodologies for monitoring and assessing counterparty credit risks. I have provided advice and made recommendations on all aspects to senior agency program officials and managers. I have analyzed the complexities of the counterparty risk management process and made recommendations to improve or modify counterparty risk management methods.
 B. I have assisted/participated in the development of methodologies for monitoring and assessing counterparty credit risks. I have provided advice and made recommendations on all aspects to agency program officials, manager, or colleagues. I have assisted in analyzing the complexities of the counterparty risk management process.
 C. I have limited experience in the development of methodologies for monitoring and assessing counterparty credit risks.
 D. None of the above
5. Select the responses that best describe your experience. Select all that apply.
 A. I have planned, assigned, and evaluated the work products of subordinates.
 B. I have established and monitored counterparty oversight goals and activities to ensure short and long-term program and/or risk management and monitoring goals are met, taking corrective action as necessary.
 C. I have allocated and adjusted resources and work assignments to meet changing demands and goals.
 D. I have motivated and led others towards achieving program related missions and goals.
 E. I have established and maintained a system of internal controls to prevent the occurrence of fraud, waste and abuse, which includes creating and maintaining record keeping and documentation requirements.
 F. None of the above
6. Which of the following have you accomplished? Select all that apply.
 A. I have led a team in researching risk management issues focused on counterparty impacts.
 B. I have developed strategies for data gathering and analysis in support of counterparty risk management.
 C. I have identified and analyzed issues, problems, and challenges facing a program arising from counterparty risk to formulate and evaluate possible courses of action.
 D. None of the Above
7. Select the responses that describe your experience conducting analyses using the following qualitative and quantitative analysis techniques. Select all that apply.
 A. Modeling and Simulation
 B. Spreadsheet and associated macros
 C. Large, interdisciplinary data assimilation
 D. Statistical Sampling
 E. Cause & Effect Analysis
 F. Process Flow Charting
 G. Trend and Gap Analysis
 H. Financial Statement Analysis
 I. Statistical Rating Agency Methodologies
 J. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
8. Do you have experience creating quantitative and qualitative reports through the analysis of various data elements/trends and reporting these issues and developing reporting conclusions to senior management?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8a. Indicate the dates and times from your resume to ensure proper credit is received. (limit 250 characters)
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
9. Do you have experience working with models, strategies and analytical tools (i.e. assessing counterparty risks in the mortgage or housing finance industry)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9a. Indicate the dates and times from your resume to ensure proper credit is received. (limit 250 characters)
10. Which of the following have been among your regular responsibilities? Select all that apply.
 A. I have independently analyzed data from a wide variety of on-line and print sources to evaluate counterparties and/or processes.
 B. I have made recommendations to senior level management on the adequacy of counterparty financial health.
 C. I have prepared counterparty risk assessments or financial analyses of financial institutions, including banks, mortgage banks or insurance companies.
 D. None of the above
11. Select from the below that you have experience performing. Select all that apply.
 A. I have developed, analyzed, or evaluated new or modified program policies, regulations or procedures.
 B. I have gathered, analyzed, and evaluated information regarding business management functions, processes and principles.
 C. I have analyzed new or proposed legislation or regulations to determine impact on program operations and management.
 D. I have identified procedural deficiencies and recommend process improvements to a wide range of interested parties.
 E. None of the above.
12. I have experience in communicating with internal and external management, mortgage industry, staff, housing stakeholders, and government officials in all of the following:
 A. Negotiating changes in operations
 B. Negotiating improvements in projects
 C. Enforcing compliance with program Requirements
 D. Conducting fact finding conclusions
 E. Resolving project management problems/issues
 F. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
13. Have you developed written policies and procedures that have impacted the work of others?
 A. Yes
 B. No
13a. Indicate the dates and times from your resume to ensure proper credit is received. (limit 250 characters)
14. Select the statement that best describes your experience composing written communications, including the responsibility and accountability for accurate content, grammar, spelling, appropriate tone and format.
 A. I have composed a variety of original written correspondence, email, procedures, memoranda or reports. I have ensured the accuracy of spelling, punctuation, grammar, and format in the final document.
 B. I have composed routine correspondence, memoranda email, procedures or reports. I have ensured the correct spelling, punctuation, grammar, and format in the document before it is finalized.
 C. I have typed correspondence written by others, ensuring documents have correct spelling, punctuation, grammar, or format before it is finalized.
 D. I have reviewed documents prepared by others, ensuring correct spelling, punctuation, and grammar before it is finalized.
 E. None of the above
15. I have experience composing written material where the audience is:
 A. General public
 B. Government attorneys
 C. Special interest groups
 D. Internal managers/employees
 E. External agencies or private companies
 F. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
16. Do you have experience providing information orally as a representative of an agency/organization at conferences, trainings and public meetings?
 A. Yes
 B. No
16a. Indicate the dates and times from your resume to ensure proper credit is received. (limit 250 characters)
17. Which of the following written products have you produced? Select all that apply.
 A. Evaluative/analytical reports for high level management officials.
 B. Guidance/interpretations of regulations, policies, standards, or procedures.
 C. Findings documenting and supporting arguments/positions on behalf of management.
 D. Correspondence sent in response to controversial situations.
 E. None of the above
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected