Position Title
Supervisory Physical Therapist - Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBST-12752998-25-RCM Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, June 27, 2025 to Tuesday, July 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. English Language Proficiency. Individuals appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C. chapters 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA must be proficient in written and spoken English. See Chapter 2, section D, paragraph 5a, this part.

I am proficient in spoken and written English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Education. Please select the response that best describes your education. (Transcripts must be submitted at the time of application)
 A. I possess a bachelor’s degree in Physical Therapy AND five (5) years of progressively independent experience as a physical therapist.
 B. I possess a master’s degree in Physical Therapy AND two (2) years of progressively independent practice as a physical therapist.
 C. I possess a doctorate degree in Physical Therapy.
 D. My education is not described in any of the above statements.
3. Licensure. Individuals hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice physical therapy in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia.

I possess the required license as described above. (License must be submitted at the time of application)
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. GS-14 Experience. Supervisory Physical Therapist - In addition to meeting the basic requirements, one year of progressively complex experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level. Experience at this level includes but not limited to responsible for the supervision, administrative management, and direction of the physical therapy program in a rehabilitation service or equivalent service-level department which consists of three or more PTs or other multi-discipline staff. The incumbent provides supervision of key clinical and training programs, including the overall technical oversight of the staff that He/she administratively supervise. Supervisors are responsible for the development and implementation of policies and procedures to address focused clinical needs and the overall services delivered and provided within the section. He/she demonstrates autonomy in performing supervisory responsibilities that include, but are not limited to, assigning work to employees, monitoring workload and clinical volume, reviewing work of employees to assure accuracy and validity of submissions, assuring adequate clinical staffing, imposing disciplinary measures, and monitoring clinical privileges. He/she is required to provide overall clinical supervision that assures the proper coordination and delivery of care within the section and the facility.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:

i. Advanced knowledge of evidence-based practices and clinical practice guidelines in multiple professional areas.
ii. Skill in managing interpersonal relationships and conflict resolution in dealing with a range of employees, discipline lead(s), and administrators.
iii. Ability to translate extensive rehabilitation knowledge into local policy development.
iv. Ability to effectively supervise staff by providing clinical and administrative oversight. This includes ability to manage resources, evaluate employees and assign work.
v. Ability to collaborate with strategic planning committees at local, VISN or national levels for new ventures addressing patient care delivery systems, facilities management, system reorganizations, etc.

I possess of one year of experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level as described above.


 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected