Position Title
Vocational Rehabilitation Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
CASK-12772840-25-DCA Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 29, 2025 to Monday, October 27, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position you will be separated from; AND,
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; AND, 
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Missoula, MT
 B. Albany, NY
 C. Buffalo, NY
 D. Montrose, NY
 E. Northport, NY
 F. McAllen, TX
 G. Eau Claire, WI
 H. Madison, WI
 I. Cheyenne, WY
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
9
11
3. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in completing the online questionnaire for the position of Vocational Rehabilitation Specialist with the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA). Your responses to this online application will be evaluated in making preliminary screening decisions for the position. All applicants must meet the Basic Requirement and Specialized experience as stated below, to qualify. 

To Qualify for this series and grade, Applicants must meet both the Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR) and the Specialized Experience as stated below.

1. AREA OF CONSIDERATION REQUIREMENT: This vacancy announcement is open ONLY to current, permanent Veterans Benefit Administration (VBA) employees and current/former Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) employees who are CTAP eligible. Please select the appropriate response below.
 A. Yes, I am a current, permanent employee of the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA).
 B. Yes, I am a current/former employee of the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) affected by reduction-in-force, making me eligible to apply under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP).
 C. No, I do not meet the Area of Consideration requirements as described above.
TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENT:
Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements.
Note: An SF-50 that shows your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials. Time-in-grade requirements also apply for CTAP applicants. To support your claim of time-in-grade, you must submit your most recent appointment, promotion, or within-grade step increase SF-50 (Not an award or general adjustment SF-50). Some applicants may have to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate their eligibility. See the required documents section for more information.  Please select the appropriate response below for each grade level.
2. GS-09: At this grade, applicants must have one year of time-in-grade at the GS-07 level or higher. Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 A. Yes, I have at least one year of time-in-grade in a position at the GS-07 grade level or higher.
 B. No, I do not have at least one year of time-in-grade at the GS-07 level (or above) nor am I eligible for a non-competitive hiring authority.
3. GS-11: At this grade, applicants must have one year of time-in-grade at the GS-09 level or higher. Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 A. Yes, I have at least one year of time-in-grade in a position at the GS-09 grade level or higher.
 B. No, I do not have at least one year of time-in-grade at the GS-09 level (or above) nor am I eligible for a non-competitive hiring authority.
The following section is used to determine your job-related experience/education. Your education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to perform the work. Please select the most appropriate response to the following questions. Select only one response.
4. All applicants must meet the Basic Requirement and Specialized experience as stated below, to qualify. Please make sure documents (i.e. resume, transcripts) include all your qualifying experience and education.

INDIVIDUAL OCCUPATIONAL REQUIREMENTS (IOR): To qualify for the VRS position, candidates must meet the following IOR requirements:

EDUCATION:
Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- vocational rehabilitation, vocational or educational counseling, or other fields related to the position (Bachelor's degree or higher).

OR

SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: Examples of qualifying specialized experience include:
Work that required obtaining and applying occupational information for people with disabilities, knowledge of the interrelationships of the involved professional and specialist services, and skill in employing the methodology and techniques of counseling to motivate and encourage individuals served by the program.
Experience that demonstrated knowledge of the vocational rehabilitation problems characteristic of the disabled, including familiarity with available resources and skill in identifying, evaluating, and making effective use of such resources to serve individuals with disabilities; or of the disadvantaged, including knowledge of adjustment problems of the educationally or culturally disadvantaged, familiarity with available adult education and training resources, and ability to recognize problem areas needing special attention.
Experience in vocational guidance or teaching in a recognized vocational rehabilitation program or school, developmental or supervisory work in programs of vocational rehabilitation or training programs for the disadvantaged, or personnel or employment placement work that provided extensive knowledge of the training and adjustment requirements necessary to place persons having disabilities or social adjustment problems.
 A. I have successfully completed undergraduate or graduate education: Major study -- vocational rehabilitation, vocational or educational counseling, or other fields related to the position. (Bachelor's degree or higher)
 B. I have met the specialized experience that is stated above in the Individual Occupational Requirements (IOR).
 C. My education and/or experience is not described above. Therefore, I do not qualify for this position
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: In addition to meeting the Individual Occupation Requirement (IOR) above, the following section is used to determine your job-related experience. Select the response that best represents your experience for this position. Select only one response. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience or demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance.
5. To qualify at the GS-09 grade, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level or higher.
 A. I possess one full year (52 weeks) of Specialized Experience which is equivalent to the next lower grade GS-07, in the normal line of progression for the position. Specialized Experience is defined as : Experience in rehabilitation services, counseling, disability, therapy, health, employment, wellness or human development theory and principles; or experience in career development programs and career development theory.
 B. I have earned a Master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related.
 C. I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and graduate education as described in "B" which totals at least one year of graduate level education. Note: You must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
 D. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
6. To qualify at the GS-11 grade, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level or higher.
 A. I possess one full year (52 weeks) of Specialized Experience which is equivalent to the next lower grade GS-09, in the normal line of progression for the position. Specialized experience is defined as: Experience in rehabilitation services, counseling, disability, therapy, health, employment, wellness or human development theory and principles; Rehabilitation counseling skills, techniques and resources needed to address complex issues associated with multiple disabilities, homebound veterans, veterans with acute or chronic mental disabilities and those with problems adjusting to social and occupational requirements.
 B. I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree Major study - vocational rehabilitation, vocational or educational counseling, or other fields related to the position or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. Note: You must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
 C. I have a combination of Specialized Experience as described in "A" and higher level graduate Education as described in "B". Note: You must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
 D. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
7. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected