Position Title
System Protection Control Craftsman Trainee 5
Agency
Bonneville Power Administration
Announcement Number
25-BPA-47464-12794278-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 16, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a SURPLUS or DISPLACED federal employee (e.g., Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP))?

If yes, confirm:

--you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;
--you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated;
--you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
--your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or equivalent.

For more information on eligibility visit:  https://www.usajobs.gov/help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/federal-employees/career-transition/

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you the spouse of:

--a member of the armed forces serving on active duty;
--a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR
--a service member who was killed while performing active duty (un-remarried widow or widower)?

For more information on eligibility visit: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/military-spouses/

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Idaho Falls, ID
 B. Gold Creek, MT
 C. Kalispell, MT
 D. Goshen, OR
 E. Hillsboro, OR
 F. Keizer, OR
 G. Malin, OR
 H. North Bend, OR
 I. Redmond, OR
 J. The Dalles, OR
 K. Umatilla, OR
 L. Bremerton, WA
 M. Clarkston, WA
 N. East Wenatchee, WA
 O. Ellensburg, WA
 P. Grand Coulee, WA
 Q. Kent, WA
 R. Longview, WA
 S. Olympia, WA
 T. Pasco, WA
 U. Richland, WA
 V. Snohomish, WA
 W. Spokane, WA
 X. Vancouver, WA
2. Do any of your relatives work for the agency to which you are applying? If so, please list any applicable names below. Please enter N/A in the text box, if not Applicable. (Include: father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, and half sister).
3. Instructions: To provide the hiring manager an opportunity to consider your accomplishments, you may submit/attach copies of your performance appraisals and/or incentive award justification as part of your application by uploading these documents into USA Staffing.


All current Federal employees must have at least a fully successful or equivalent performance rating or higher, to be considered for competitive placement. Competitive Federal employees who have a current unacceptable performance rating will be excluded from consideration.
 A. I am a current Federal employee, my last performance rating was fully successful (meets expectations) or equivalent, or higher.
 B. I am a current Federal employee; my last performance rating was unacceptable (fails to meet expectations).
 C. I am a new Federal employee and have not received a performance rating as of the date of this application.
 D. I am not a Federal employee; however, I will consider attaching my recent performance appraisal from my employer for consideration.
 E. I am not a Federal employee, and I do not have any performance documentation to submit for consideration.
4. Have you received awards or been recognized as part of your annual performance appraisal for work that was based on one or more of the competencies described in this vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five (5) years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Please list the title, agency and dates of the appointments
Deferred Resignation Program
1. Are you a Department of Energy employee who accepted the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) either through OPM's Fork in the Road or through DOE's DRP?

 A. Yes, I am a DOE employee who accepted the DRP through resignation or retirement.
 B. No, I am not a DOE DRP participant.
2. Are you a Department of Energy employee who is currently on Administrative Leave?
 A. Yes, I am a DOE employee who is currently on Administrative Leave
 B. No, I am not a DOE employee who is currently on Administrative Leave.
Assessment 1
1. Ability to do the work of the position without more than normal supervision as described in the vacancy announcement.
 A. I know little or nothing about this.
 B. I have had study or training in this.
 C. I have used my knowledge or ability, but I have been closely supervised.
 D. I have used my knowledge or ability on my own, under normal supervision.
 E. I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs.
2. Do you possess a current valid U.S. motor vehicle operators license from your state of residence?

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you able to operate motor vehicles, including 1-1/2 ton pickups, sedans, van type trucks, forklifts, and 4x4's?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Please indicate, with job titles and dates, where in your resume your experience addresses the following questions. Ensure that your two-page resume provides sufficient detail to support your qualifications. In compliance with Executive Order 14170, all resumes are limited to a maximum of two pages. Only the first two pages of your resume will be reviewed by the panel of subject matter experts during the evaluation process. Any content beyond the second page will not be considered. Please note that additional documentation, such as cover letters or links included in your resume, will not be reviewed.
4. Describe where in your resume (position title and dates) you demonstrate ability to, under direct supervision, learn to perform preventive and corrective maintenance on protective relays, revenue meters, telemetering schemes, substation control systems, and various kinds of substation monitoring equipment. (limit 500 characters)
5. Describe where in your resume (position title and dates) you demonstrate installing, repairing, and operating substation or industrial control systems and devices. (limit 500 characters)
6. Describe where in your resume (position title and dates) you demonstrate performing repairs, adjustments, and final accuracy tests on Programmable Logic Controllers, battery systems, transformers, circuit breakers, protection systems, and other electrical equipment. (limit 500 characters)
7. Describe where in your resume (position title and dates) you demonstrate selecting instruments and performing basic math (ratios and trig functions) to measure and document test results against specifications. (limit 500 characters)
8. Describe where in your resume (position title and dates) you demonstrate using digital multimeters to assist in measuring circuit ohms, AC/DC Voltage, AC/DC Current, and diode check functions. (limit 500 characters)
9. Describe where in your resume (position title and dates) you demonstrate recognizing equipment or system failures and determining a course of action and carrying out a plan of diagnosis and repair. (limit 500 characters)
10. Describe where in your resume (position title and dates) you demonstrate assisting in developing a special test program, performing a novel test, or providing input in the development of troubleshooting instructions. (limit 500 characters)
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected