Position Title
CYP Food Service Worker
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
GP-26-12818370 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 22, 2025 to Wednesday, October 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
1.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


3.
I am willing and able to acquire professional job-related certifications with the time frame specified in the announcement.
 Yes
 No


4.
I am willing and able to submit to a pre-employment physical exam prior to employment.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Child and Youth Program Food Service Worker. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you.
 I have a high school diploma or equivalent.
 I have none of the above.


2.
How many years of experience do you have in supporting the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Child and Adult Care Food Program (CACFP) and other food programs?
 I have 2+ years of experience in supporting the USDA CACFP, as described above, in a Department of Defense (DoD) Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience in supporting the USDA CACFP, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 2+ years of experience in supporting the USDA CACFP, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience in supporting the USDA CACFP, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 or more years of experience in supporting the USDA CACFP.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in supporting food programs.
 I have no experience in the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have in food preparation and procedures?
 I have 2+ years of experience in food preparation and procedures in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience in food preparation and procedures in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 2+ years of experience in food preparation and procedures in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience in food preparation and procedures in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 or more years of experience in food preparation and procedures.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in food preparation and procedures.
 I have no experience in the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have in food handling techniques, personal hygiene standards, and safe work procedures?
 I have 3+ years of experience in food handling techniques, hygiene standards, and safe work procedures in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in food handling techniques, hygiene standards, and safe work procedures in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience in food handling techniques, hygiene standards, and safe work procedures in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in food handling techniques, hygiene standards, and safe work procedures in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 or more years of experience in food handling techniques, hygiene standards, and safe work procedures.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in food handling techniques, hygiene standards, and safe work procedures.
 I have no experience in the above


5.
How many years of experience do you have in following food sanitation standards and procedures to prevent contamination (e.g., cleaning equipment that has been used for raw food before further use and using chemical sanitizers)?
 I have 3+ years of experience in food sanitation, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in food sanitation, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience in food sanitation, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in food sanitation, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 or more years of experience in food sanitation.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in food sanitation.
 I have no experience in the above.


6.
Have you ever held a Food Service Program position in a DoD Child and Youth Program?
 Yes, I have held a Food Service Program position in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 No, I have not held a Food Service Program position in a DoD Child and Youth Program.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙