Position Title
Immigration Officer
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12801139-FDSMIA-IMP-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 17, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current USCIS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. The Reemployment Priority List (RPL) is the mechanism DHS uses to give reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees separated by reduction-in-force (RIF), or fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a former USCIS employee?  If so, have you met all of the following criteria?
Registered for the RPL program, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupied a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current/most recent performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent, and
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606
For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, visit 5 CFR 330 Subpart B.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
My SF-50 showing Separation - RIF. If that is not available yet, then official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who is in a permanent position that is in the competitive service (see block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type)?

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of our SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who has held, or currently holds, a permanent position in the competitive service (see block #34 of your SF-50) with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?  

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
 Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Miami, FL
 B. Oakland Park, FL
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
11
12
13
3. I acknowledge the following conditions if I choose to submit my resume through the USAJOBS Resume Builder:
I understand that resumes submitted through USAJOBS Resume Builder are converted to a PDF format when they are transmitted to USA Staffing from the USAJOBS applicant interface and additional spaces/page gaps are added to resumes during the Resume Builder conversion process;
Based on the above conditions, I understand that USCIS strongly encourages me to save my resume to a PDF document and upload the PDF document instead of submitting my resume created through Resume Builder;
I understand that USCIS' human resources will only review the first 2 pages of my resume to determine eligibility/qualifications for this position;
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I have met this requirement for consideration.

(Note: Additional guidance regarding this requirement is available within the How to Submit Your Resume section of the USCIS Resume Requirement FAQs.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 D. No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.
5. Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) from the Federal Government within the last 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. This advertisement is open for current permanent USCIS employees of a specified office. Refer to the "Clarification from the agency" section of the vacancy announcement for office specific details. Are you a current permanent employee of the specific USCIS office listed in the "Clarification from the agency" section of this vacancy announcement? Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement, that shows you are a current permanent employee of the USCIS office (block #22 of your SF-50) listed in the announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. I acknowledge that this position is NOT remote and that if selected, I will be expected to report to the duty station listed within the announcement text.
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I understand this requirement.
By answering NO to this question, I am asking to be removed from further consideration for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. GS-11 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience and/or education?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or at least three (3) full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M. in a field related to the work of this position as described in the vacancy announcement.
 C. I possess a combination of specialized experience and graduate education beyond the first two (2) years of graduate study that together meet the requirements for this position.
 D. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.
2. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
3. GS-12 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
4. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
5. GS-13 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
6. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
7. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the  GS-11. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the  GS-09 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-09 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-09 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-11 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., VRA, Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
8. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the  GS-12. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the  GS-11 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
9. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the  GS-13. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the  GS-12 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
The following section contains a multitude of question types. If you see a radio button, you can only select one response. If you see a checkbox, you may select all that apply.
10. I have independently implemented special projects related to immigration benefits that have had organizational-wide impact.
 A. True
 B. False
11. Which actions have you taken to perform security checks using government systems?
 A. Conducted file searches for aliases
 B. Conducted file searches for dates of birth
 C. Conducted file searches for criminal behavior
 D. Conducted file searches for fraud or suspected fraud
 E. Conducted file searches for misrepresentation of identity
 F. Reported submissions of fraudulent or altered documents
 G. Identified files with national security threats and public safety issues
 H. Ensured records and property were maintained and destroyed in accordance with security requirements.
 I. None of the above.
12. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience responding to congressional, interagency, or intra-agency inquiries/complaints (e.g., request for guidance on policy application, explanation of adjudication result)?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education responding to these types of inquiries/complaints.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to responding to these types of inquiries/complaints, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I drafted portions of responses for higher level review.
 D. I independently wrote responses or testimony to respond to inquiries/complaints.
 E. I was responsible for representing the agency in the overall response to inquiries/complaints.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
13. Have you performed searches to identify duplicate Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and Privacy Act (PA) cases, A-files, T-files, and receipt files?
 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience interacting with intelligence agencies?
 A. I analyzed intelligence received indirectly and incorporated it into decision-making.
 B. I have been a point of contact for intelligence agencies.
 C. I routinely cultivated relationships with intelligence agencies to promote inter-agency collaboration.
 D. I have no experience, training, or education related to interacting with intelligence agencies.
 E. I completed education and/or training related to interacting with intelligence agencies, but do not have professional experience.
15. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience interacting with law enforcement entities?
 A. I analyzed law enforcement information received indirectly and incorporated it into decision-making.
 B. I have been a point of contact for law enforcement entities.
 C. I cultivated relationships with law enforcement entities to promote inter-agency collaboration.
 D. I have no experience, training, or education related to interacting with law enforcement entities.
 E. I completed education and/or training related to interacting with law enforcement entities, but do not have professional experience.
16. Which activities have you performed to provide assistance to immigration personnel?
 A. Identified individuals who posed a threat to national security.
 B. Prosecuted those who committed fraud while seeking services and benefits.
 C. Analyzed petitions and applications to discern fraud patterns.
 D. Participated in fact finding and supported enforcement personnel when information indicated fraud.
 E. Granted applications based on review of supporting documentation, data derived from a systems search, and/or evidence generated by hearings or interviews.
 F. Referred cases to appropriate channels where fraud was suspected.
 G. None of the above.
17. Which activities have you performed pertaining to the prevention of immigration fraud?
 A. Analyzed anti-fraud and law enforcement check policies, procedures, and systems.|Assisted Immigration officers and Specialists in data collection.
 B. Generated reports and documented trends in immigration fraud.
 C. Accessed data systems to extract information pertinent to background check protocols.
 D. Participated in inter-agency and/or intra-agency task forces to enhance U.S. national security and the integrity of the legal immigration system.
 E. Detected red-flags pertaining to immigration fraud while reviewing case files.
 F. None of the above.
18. Which activities have you performed related to detecting immigration fraud?
 A. Accessed Immigration data systems for research (e.g. NCIC, TECS, etc.).
 B. Verified and evaluated Immigration Benefit Applications.
 C. Conducted interviews.
 D. Identified common fraud patterns and trends.
 E. None of the above.
19. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience producing official records for legal representation?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to producing official records.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to producing official records, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I prepared adjudication notices such as denial and approval notices, request for information, and notices of intent to deny.
 D. I responded to Congressional, inter-agency, or intra-agency legal inquiries in written or memo format.
 E. I wrote responses or testimony for Congressional, interagency, or intra-agency inquiries based on knowledge of federal laws, rules, regulations, policies, and procedures.
20. Which sources have you researched to identify and detect Immigration Fraud?
 A. Immigration and Nationality Act.
 B. Law Enforcement databases.
 C. Obtained information from other agencies.
 D. National Criminal Information Center (NCIC).
 E. Treasury Enforcement Communication System (TECS).
 F. Interviews and sworn statements.
 G. None of the above.
21. Select the statements that describe your experience processing and investigating immigration benefits cases.
 A. I safeguarded Personally Identifiable Information (PII).
 B. I investigated and determined Benefit Fraud.
 C. I identified current fraud patterns and trends.
 D. I handled classified information in accordance with regulations.
 E. I explained Immigration and Nationality Act rules, regulations and policies to others.
 F. None of the above.
22. Which activities you have performed related to the detection of Immigration Fraud?
 A. Reported on the effectiveness of anti-fraud operations.
 B. Recommended corrective action plans, such as changes in local, state, and/or national policies and procedures.
 C. Identified specific and unique vulnerabilities to the integrity of the legal immigration system.
 D. Identified systematic vulnerabilities to the integrity of the legal immigration system.
 E. Applied corrective actions to strengthen the legal immigration system based on identified vulnerabilities.
 F. Prepared analyses to enhance local, regional, and national immigration fraud policies.
 G. None of the above.
23. Which statement best represents your highest level of experience developing immigration policies, programs, and procedures independently?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to developing immigration policies, programs or procedures.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to developing immigration policies, programs or procedures, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I independently conducted research on program management best practices.
 D. I reviewed proposed legislation on adjudications programs and recommended changes where appropriate.
 E. I participated in working groups to negotiate policy changes.
 F. I prepared executive-level reports on the impact of proposed immigration adjudicative policy on the agency mission.
24. Select the activities you have completed to communicate with applicants and petitioners applying for immigration benefits.
 A. I independently communicated highly technical immigration laws to customers seeking immigration benefits.
 B. I mitigated applicants' objections by analyzing issues and identifying appropriate resources for expedient resolution.
 C. I developed Standard Operating Procedures on how to appropriately adjudicate applications and petitions for immigration benefits.
 D. I followed-up with applicants and petitioners to ensure there were no new/remaining issues.
 E. None of the above.
25. Select the activities you have performed related to ensuring the accuracy of data related to immigration fraud.
 A. Reviewed applications/petitions for completeness.
 B. Verified accuracy of entered data|Updated database with new or revised information.
 C. Created queries to facilitate data review.
 D. Conducted database searches to identify potential issues (i.e., fraud).
 E. None of the above.
26. Which sources have you researched to adjudicate applications for benefits?
 A. Precedent decisions
 B. Guidance in legislative history
 C. Federal laws and regulations
 D. State and local news
 E. Operating instructions
 F. International treaties
 G. None of the above
27. Select the activities you have performed related to ensuring the accuracy of data related to the adjudications of benefits.
 A. Reviewed applications/petitions for completeness.
 B. Verified accuracy of entered data
 C. Updated database with new or revised information.
 D. Created queries to facilitate data review.
 E. Conducted database searches to identify potential issues (i.e., data discrepancies).
 F. None of the above.
28. Select the activities you have performed pertaining to immigration fraud.
 A. I analyzed operational aspects of anti-fraud and law enforcement checks (e.g., policies, procedures, systems).
 B. I gathered and organized records in databases to assist Immigration Officers in creating reports.
 C. I accessed law enforcement and commercial databases to extract information for background checks as part of immigration fraud detection.
 D. I participated in special groups (e.g., inter-agency or intra-agency task forces) to enhance U.S. national security and the integrity of the legal immigration system.
 E. None of the above
29. Which sources of information have you independently researched and interpreted to embrace a course of action related to a case?
 A. Sections of law and regulations
 B. Standard Operating Procedures
 C. References and guidance contained in legislative history
 D. Precedent decisions
 E. International treaties
 F. None of the above
30. If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "pass," "satisfactory," or better?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. I am a Federal employee but have not received a performance rating.
 D. Not applicable. I am not a Federal employee.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
31. Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected