Position Title
Project Manager
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12789004-OPSRCD-ST-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 29, 2025 to Monday, September 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current DHS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you wish to be considered as a current Federal employee who meets one of the following criteria?
 In a permanent position that is in the competitive service (see block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type)
OR
With an excepted service agency but can be hired into the competitive service because you meet the criteria of an Interchange Agreement. Additional information about current Interchange Agreements can be found here. 

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If your position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), it is recommended that you also include the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Do you wish to be considered as a current Federal employee who meets one of the following criteria?

I have held, or currently hold either: 
 A permanent position in the competitive service (see block #34 of your SF-50) with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised
OR
An appointment with an excepted service agency but can be hired into the competitive service because I meet the criteria of an Interchange Agreement, with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised. Additional information about current Interchange Agreements can be found here. 
Note: If your position referenced above is not on the GS pay scale, your pay must be at or above the representative rate (step 04) of the full performance level of this position. 

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If your position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block 34 of your SF-50), it is recommended that you also include the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Do you wish to be considered as a former Federal employee who previously held a permanent position that was in the competitive service (see block #34 of your SF-50) with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?

Note: If your position referenced above is not on the GS pay scale, your pay must be at or above the representative rate (step 04) of the full performance level of this position. 

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If your position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block 34 of your SF-50), it is recommended that you also include the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Do you wish to be considered as a former Federal Employee in the civilian service who previously held a position that was in the competitive service and is eligible to be reinstated? (See block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type) 

More information about the eligibility requirements for reinstatement can be found here. 

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If your position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), it is recommended that you also include the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment. It is also recommended that you submit the SF-50 showing your separation.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7.

Do you wish to be considered under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) because you are a current or former Federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.704

For more information about ICTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Are you a current (or former) time-limited employee of one or more of the following Land Management Agencies or Base Facilities Management Agencies?

Land Management:
Department of Agriculture: Forest Service
Department of the Interior: Bureau of Land Management
Department of the Interior: National Park Service
Department of the Interior: Fish and Wildlife Service
Department of the Interior: Bureau of Indian Affairs
Department of the Interior: Bureau of Reclamation
Base Facilities Management:
The Department of Defense, Defense Industrial Base Facility
The Department of Defense Major Range and Test Facilities Base
To verify your eligibility, you must submit:
Copies of your Notification of Personnel Actions(s) (SF-50):
Showing you have served in the appropriate appointment(s) for a period/periods totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two (2) or more years.
You must also submit the initial hire action, extensions, conversion, and termination/separation SF-50s for each service period.
Appropriate documentation to verify your acceptable level of performance, which is supported by one or more of the following:
Performance rating(s) showing an acceptable level of performance for period(s) of employment signed by your supervisor;
A statement from your supervisor(s) or other individual in the supervisory chain indicating an acceptable level of performance for the period(s) of employment; or
A stated reason as to the reason the appraisal/documentation is not available and a statement that your performance for all periods was at an acceptable level, your most recent separation was for reasons other than misconduct or performance, and you were never notified that you were not eligible for rehire based on performance.
You must submit all required documents by the closing date of the announcement with your application package.
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. The Reemployment Priority List (RPL) is the mechanism DHS uses to give reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees separated by reduction-in-force (RIF), or fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a former DHS employee?  If so, have you met all of the following criteria?
Registered for the RPL program, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupied a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current/most recent performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent, and
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606.
For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, visit 5 CFR 330 Subpart B.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
My SF-50 showing Separation - RIF. If that is not available yet, then official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Do you wish to be considered under the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) because you meet one of the following criteria?
Are a preference-eligible veteran,
OR
Are a veteran separated from the armed forces after three (3) or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions. 
Note: Veterans claiming eligibility on the basis of service in a campaign or expedition for which a medal was awarded must be in receipt of the campaign badge or medal.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
DD-214 showing character of service, and
If applying based on your preference as a disabled veteran, you must submit your letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) showing the combined service-connected disability rating, or other acceptable documentation. 
See OPM's Vet Guide or SF-15 for more information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
13
14
2. I acknowledge the following conditions if I choose to submit my resume through the USAJOBS Resume Builder:
I understand that resumes submitted through USAJOBS Resume Builder are converted to a PDF format when they are transmitted to USA Staffing from the USAJOBS applicant interface and additional spaces/page gaps are added to resumes during the Resume Builder conversion process;
Based on the above conditions, I understand that USCIS strongly encourages me to save my resume to a PDF document and upload the PDF document instead of submitting my resume created through Resume Builder;
I understand that USCIS' human resources will only review the first 2 pages of my resume to determine eligibility/qualifications for this position;
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I have met this requirement for consideration.

(Note: Additional guidance regarding this requirement is available within the How to Submit Your Resume section of the USCIS Resume Requirement FAQs.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 D. No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.
4. Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) from the Federal Government within the last 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I acknowledge that this position is NOT remote and that if selected, I will be expected to report to the duty station listed within the announcement text.
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I understand this requirement.
By answering NO to this question, I am asking to be removed from further consideration for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. GS-13 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
2. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.

3. GS-14 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
4. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.

5. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-13. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
6. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the  GS-14. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the  GS-13 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-14 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
The following section contains a multitude of question types. If you see a radio button, you can only select one response. If you see a checkbox, you may select all that apply.
 
7. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience developing or revising digital content to inform others of programs and policies?
 A. I have no experience, education, or training related to developing digital content.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to digital content, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I identified digital content to be updated.
 D. I recommended changes to digital content to align with the organization's programs and policies.
 E. I developed and edited digital content to communicate high-priority programs and policies that attracted national attention.
8. Select the tasks you have performed to maintain information in record tracking systems.
 A. I analyzed various systems and databases to ensure the information was accurate.
 B. I updated records within electronic systems and databases.
 C. I provided feedback to system developers and system personnel to improve efficiency of record management.
 D. I implemented protocols to accurately maintain a record tracking system.
 E. None of the above.
9. Select the applications you have used independently to complete work assignments.
 A. Microsoft Excel
 B. Microsoft Access
 C. PowerPoint
 D. OneNote
 E. SharePoint
 F. Adobe Acrobat
 G. WebView
 H. Concur
 I. Publisher
 J. Word
 K. Visio
 L. Systems of Record applications
 M. Payroll applications
 N. Contracting/budget authorization applications
 O. Hiring authorization/personnel hiring systems
 P. Electronic application systems
 Q. None of the above
10. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience monitoring project performance to completion?
 A. I developed policies that were implemented to monitor project performance.
 B. I directed programs that monitored project performance.
 C. I provided advice to others on how to monitor project performance to completion.
 D. I completed education and/or training related to monitoring project performance but have not yet performed it on the job.
 E. I have no experience, training, or education related to monitoring project performance.
11. Select the tasks you have performed to manage team assignments.
 A. Set expectations (i.e., standards, deadlines) for team/individual performance
 B. Executed an established operating/project budget
 C. Established work schedules`
 D. Assigned tasks
 E. Reviewed completed work for technical adequacy
 F. Provided feedback to team members/employees on completed work
 G. Reported team progress to senior management
 H. Created analysis of the workload to assist with performance measurements
 I. None of the above
12. Select the work products you have authored.
 A. Executive Briefings
 B. Correspondence or memoranda
 C. Project status reports
 D. Standard Operating Procedures
 E. Training manuals
 F. Policy guidance
 G. Budget proposals
 H. Performance measures
 I. None of the above
13. Which project management tasks have you independently performed?
 A. Established project management standards (e.g., templates, guidelines) used by an entire organization.
 B. Executed established projects set by the executive leadership.
 C. Conducted research to resolve problems that arose during projects.
 D. Prioritized assigned individual tasks.
 E. Reviewed employees' work for technical adequacy.
 F. Provided performance feedback to team members on assigned tasks.
 G. Provided management oversight (e.g., tracking deadlines, monitoring performance) to a team on a project with organization-wide impact.
 H. None of the above.
14. I have independently planned projects that resulted in organizational-wide improvements.
 A. True
 B. False
15. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience reporting organizational performance measures?
 A. I have not had experience, education, or training related to reporting measures of organizational performance.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to reporting measures of organizational performance, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I compiled organizational performance data for analysis and subsequent reporting.
 D. I audited organizational performance-related reports to determine deficiencies/compliance with standards.
 E. I analyzed organizational performance-related reports to make recommendations to enhance operational effectiveness.
16. Which statement best describes your experience with reaching consensus amongst others?
 A. I have overseen groups working together to reach a consensus.
 B. I have participated in a group, which worked together to reach a consensus.
 C. I have observed others working in a group setting successfully reach a consensus.
 D. I have no experience with groups working together to form a consensus.
17. Choose the statement(s) below that reflect(s) your experience giving oral presentations in a professional setting.
 A. I have given oral presentations to external parties and high-level management.
 B. I have given oral presentations to supervisory staff.
 C. I have given oral presentations to peers and colleagues.
 D. I have given oral presentations to subordinate staff.
 E. I have never given oral presentations.
18. Which program and project management activities have you performed?
 A. I functioned as an acquisition specialist.
 B. I have been a team member in a liaison role between project teams, Program Manager, and customers.
 C. I attended meetings with Project Teams to jointly identify and plan upcoming contract actions.
 D. I led meetings with Project Teams, as the Project Manager, to ensure timelines and the budget of the procurement process are being met.
 E. I assisted Program Manager(s) in the development of the acquisition lifecycle to identify objectives and milestones.
 F. I created performance schedules for project teams.
 G. I suggested changes to the Contracting Officer that improved contract performance and processes.
 H. None of the above.
19. Select the audiences for whom you have prepared customer feedback presentations (e.g., briefings).
 A. Colleagues
 B. Team leads/Program Managers
 C. First-line Supervisors
 D. Senior-level officials
 E. External partners
 F. None of the above
20. Which statement best describes your highest level of making sound, well-informed recommendations?
 A. I asked for guidance from others (peers, supervisors, trainers).
 B. I referenced established training documents and operating procedures to solve work problems.
 C. I collaborated with peers to make sound, well-informed decisions.
 D. I trained others on techniques to assist in making well-informed recommendations.
21. Select the activities you've performed that are related to building effective partnerships to increase knowledge of programs that support immigration.
 A. I have worked with colleagues within my immediate organization (e.g. Field Office, District Office) to solve problems and improve processes.
 B. I have worked with senior management staff within my Region or similar organization to improve outreach and communication to non-governmental agencies.
 C. I have partnered with other agency staff and non-governmental agencies to improve education, communication, and understanding of immigration programs and processes.
 D. I have led groups of colleagues within USCIS in efforts to improve education, communication, and understanding of USCIS programs and processes with individuals, groups, and organizations outside of USCIS.
 E. None of the above.
22. Select your highest achievement in influencing and leading others to accomplish your agency's or organization's priorities.
 A. I have moved important initiatives forward because I understand the reality of working within organizational politics.
 B. I have gained employee commitment to an organizations’ priorities by clearly communicating my expectations and holding employees accountable to these expectations.
 C. I have guided a team or direct reports through a significant organizational change by garnering the team’s trust, by carefully listening to their concerns, then relaying their concerns to higher management, and ultimately, working with higher management to come to a mutually beneficial resolution.
 D. I have promoted interdependency by allowing my subordinates a certain amount of autonomy so that they may develop creative and innovative strategies or solutions within the team dynamic.
 E. I have been successful in leading a team to accomplish organizational priorities because I effectively communicate my vision to them and share my enthusiasm for it.
 F. None of these answers apply.
23. Select all of the activities you've performed that involved collaborating with other agency programs as well as government and non-governmental partners.
 A. I have worked with colleagues within my agency to solve problems and improve processes.
 B. I have worked with staff in other agencies or similar organization to solve problems or improve processes.
 C. I have partnered with agency staff and non-governmental agencies to resolve issues or improve understanding of agency processes and programs.
 D. I have led groups of colleagues within USCIS in efforts to improve relationships with non-governmental organizations that have a need to understand USCIS programs and processes.
 E. None of the above.
24. Which statement best describes your approach to fostering dynamic interactions with management?
 A. I have adopted behaviors which enhance interactive contributions, such as expanding personal networks within the workplace and bringing more information to the table at team meetings.
 B. I keep informed on issues important to my organization and frame these issues appropriate to the manager with whom I am interacting.
 C. When communicating upward to management, I focus on the impact not the process and on vision for the future instead of past missteps.
 D. I first attempt to understand the roles of each level of management, and then present information that is pertinent to that manager's job function.
 E. None of the above.
25. Which sources of information have you independently researched and interpreted to embrace a course of action related to a case?
 A. Sections of law and regulations
 B. Standard Operating Procedures
 C. References and guidance contained in legislative history
 D. Precedent decisions
 E. International treaties
 F. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
26. Have you updated existing policies and procedures for a program or office based on new or changing legislation, regulations, and policies?
 A. Yes
 B. No
27. Select the written documents you have drafted pertaining to immigration law.
 A. Explanation of rules or regulations
 B. Response to applicants regarding pending status inquiries
 C. Reports regarding compliance
 D. Requests for documentation from applicants
 E. College papers pertaining to immigration law
 F. Legal research projects
 G. None of the above
28. Which strategies have you used to analyze work processes to ensure compliance with privacy-related laws, policies, and guidance?
 A. I organized a team to assist with brainstorming and identifying inefficiencies in a work process.
 B. I analyzed data (e.g., statistics, trends) to determine processes that required improvement.
 C. I created a flow chart to identify each step in the analysis process and possible outcomes.
 D. I interviewed subject matter experts to identify issues and concerns in the process.
 E. I developed performance improvement indicators and units of measurement.
 F. I delegated the analytical process to subject matter experts in that particular work function.
 G. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
29. Have you developed new policies and procedures for a program or office based on new or changing legislation, regulations, and policies?
 A. Yes
 B. No
30. Select the statement that describes your highest level of experience communicating information concerning programs and policy procedures.
 A. Coordinated differing perspectives on complex information with management officials to establish objectives, goals, priorities, and deadlines on programs and policy procedures.
 B. Developed and evaluated concurrent projects on program and policy procedures.
 C. Recommended short-and long-term determinations impacting program and policy procedures.
 D. None of the above
31. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience using writing style guides (e.g., Associated Press (AP) Stylebook, Government Printing Office (GPO) Style guide)?
 A. I have no experience, education, or training using writing style guides.
 B. I completed education and/or training on writing style guides, but do not have professional experience using them.
 C. I independently applied writing style guides and standards to professional documents.
 D. I identified limitations and gaps of existing style guides and recommended solutions.
 E. I designed a writing style guide that was applied across my organization to mitigate limitations and gaps.
32. Which activities have you performed related to legislation, regulations, policy and procedures?
 A. Reviewed legislation, regulations, policies, and procedures to identify and compile the applicable information.
 B. Determined compliance/non-compliance with the applicable legislation, regulations, policy and procedure and informed others for decision-making.
 C. Reviewed new or changes to legislation, regulations, policies, and procedures to identify organizational impacts.
 D. Explained interpretations of the legislation, regulations, policy and procedures to others.
 E. Provided recommendations for a course of action as a result of the relevant legislation, regulations, policy and procedures.
 F. None of the above.
33. I have written position papers concerning the impact of new or proposed legislation on existing immigration benefits programs to inform senior leadership within my organization.
 A. True
 B. False
34. Which types of software have you independently used to organize information?
 A. Word Processing (e.g., Microsoft Word)
 B. Email (e.g., Outlook)
 C. Spreadsheets (e.g., Excel)
 D. Databases (e.g., Access)
 E. Graphics/Presentation Tools (e.g., Power Point)
 F. Project Management Tools (e.g., Microsoft Project)
 G. Collaboration Tools (e.g., SharePoint, Google Docs)
 H. None of the above
35. Which administrative/clerical activities have you performed?
 A. I provided administrative management for a group (e.g., department, section, division), including interpreting, developing, and implementing policies and defining administrative requirements.
 B. I provided advice to management on group-/project-related issues and requirements.
 C. I developed plans to accomplish my assigned work and made adjustments when priorities shifted.
 D. I prepared schedules for a team to complete work.
 E. I forecasted supplies and maintained stock levels.
 F. I provided on-the-job training to others.
 G. None of the above.
36. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience managing data in spreadsheets and databases?
 A. I searched for information in existing databases and spreadsheets using sorts, filters, and/or queries.
 B. I manipulated data in spreadsheets/databases by creating formulas and graphs.
 C. I created spreadsheets/databases to organize data and performed data entry.
 D. I am certified in Microsoft Office (or comparable) programs for spreadsheets and/or databases.
 E. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
37. Have you independently written reports that presented technical statistical issues/analyses for non-technical audiences?
 A. Yes
 B. No
38. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience communicating about risk analysis and mitigation?
 A. I briefed high level officials on the impact of risk mitigation efforts I oversaw.
 B. I communicated the impact of identified risks and recommended corrective action.
 C. I wrote briefing materials regarding risks for management.
 D. I discussed risk control theories with colleagues.
 E. I completed education and/or training related to communicating risk analysis and mitigation, but do not have professional experience.
 F. I have no experience, training, or education related to communicating risk analysis and mitigation.
39. When guidance is ambiguous or not straight forward, which course of action do you take?
 A. Ask my peer or supervisor for assistance.
 B. Research all available guidance and make an independent, logical decision.
 C. Stop working on the assignment to allow time to think about it more.
 D. Take my best guess and move on to the next assignment.
40. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience measuring workload based on personnel requirements?
 A. I completed education and/or training related to measuring workloads but do not have professional experience.
 B. I independently monitored my workload to ensure personnel shortcomings and workload requirements were met.
 C. I participated in a work group or shared team to devise and monitor workload and personnel balances to accomplish organizational needs.
 D. I served as a primary contributor by monitoring and advising the management of my workload and the workload of others
 E. I developed a method of tracking workload demands in contrast to employee ratios based on varied levels of experience and complexity.
 F. I provided feedback on my workload balance strategic efforts and provided feedback for process improvement.
 G. None of the above
41. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers?
 A. I have not had education and/or training in developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents.
 B. I have had education and/or training in developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers.
 C. I have developed and formatted written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers under close supervision to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have independently developed and formatted written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers.
 E. I have supervised others in, or been regularly consulted as an expert in, developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers.
42. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience responding to an issue or situation in which the resolution was not obvious?
 A. I gathered basic information about the situation and took the issue to a supervisor for help.
 B. I researched the situation to develop alternatives within guidelines and collaborated with a supervisor to resolve it.
 C. I developed a recommended solution based on my research of the situation and guidelines and sought confirmation/approval from my supervisor before proceeding.
 D. I researched and resolved the issue independently, then briefed my team or supervisor on the action taken.
 E. None of the above.
43. If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "pass," "satisfactory," or better?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. I am a Federal employee but have not received a performance rating.
 D. Not applicable. I am not a Federal employee.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
44. Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected