Position Title
Occupational Therapist - Home Based Primary Care
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12775992-25-AB Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, August 5, 2025 to Friday, September 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. A current, valid state-issued Driver's License is required for this position. NOTE: We cannot accept photographs, therefore; please do not submit a copy of your license with your application package. If an interview is requested, you will be required to provide a copy of your current, valid state-issued Driver's License.

Do you possess a current and valid state-issued driver's license?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Bay Pines, FL
 B. Port Charlotte, FL
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
9
11
12
3. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
4. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with the Department of Veterans Affairs. The following assessment questionnaire is used to determine if you meet the basic requirements for this vacancy. Please choose the most appropriate answer in response to the following questions.
BASIC REQUIREMENTS: The basic requirements for employment as a VHA Occupational Therapist are prescribed by the Occupational Therapist - GS-0631 - Qualification Standard. To qualify for appointment as a Occupational Therapist in VHA, all applicants must meet the following.
1. Basic Education and/or Experience for all grades levels:
Please select your highest level of education and experience from the options below.
(a) Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) years of experience as an occupational therapist. NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE) would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy. -OR-
(b) Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) full years of graduate education in a related field; NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that ACOTE would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy. -OR-
(c) Master's Degree or higher in occupational therapy

NOTE: Individuals must be a graduate of a degree program in occupational therapy approved by the ACOTE or predecessor organizations. This is inclusive of an internship (supervised fieldwork experience required by the educational institution). ACOTE is the only accreditation agency recognized by the United States Department of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation. Degree programs may be verified by contacting the American Occupational Therapy Association website or at their office address.

Foreign Graduates - Graduates of foreign occupational therapy programs meet the requirements if they have a current, full, active and unrestricted license.

You must submit a copy of your Transcripts with your application. The copy of Transcripts may be official or unofficial, however should contain Your Name, the Institutions Name, City and State as well as the Degree earned and the DATE the degree was conferred. In progress degrees are not eligible.  This information is used to verify qualifications and accreditation. We cannot make assumptions regarding your education.

Do you meet the education and/or experience requirements as indicated above?
 A. I have a Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) years of experience as an occupational therapist.
 B. I have a Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) full years of graduate education in a related field.
 C. I have a Master's Degree or higher in occupational therapy.
 D. I am a Foreign Graduate and possess a current, full, active and unrestricted license.
 E. I do not possess the required education and or experience required for this position.
2. Do you possess a current National Board for Certification in Occupational Therapy (NBCOT) Certification as an Occupational Therapist?
 A. Yes, I am certified as an OT by the NBCOT. I have attached my active, valid cert.
 B. No, I am NOT currently certified as an OT by NBCOT. I am eligible for the GS-9 only and intend on being certified within the next two (2) years.
 C. No, I am NOT certified as an OT by NBCOT, and do NOT intend to seek certification.
3. Do you possess a full, current, and unrestricted license, to practice Occupational Therapy (OT) in a state, territory, or commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia?
 A. Yes, I am fully licensed to practice occupational therapy in a state, territory, or commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia. I have attached my active valid licensure.
 B. No, I am NOT fully licensed. I am eligible for the GS-9 only and intend on being licensed within the next two (2) years.
 C. No, I am NOT fully licensed, NOR will I be able to obtain licensure within the next two (2) years and acknowledge my application may not receive further consideration.
GRADE REQUIREMENTS: Select the statements below that best describe your ability to meet the requirements for a Occupational Therapist position at the GS-9/11/12 levels. Please refer to the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement for detailed information.
4. GS-9 Experience, Education, or Licensure: No post-educational experience, education, or licensure is required at the GS-9 level beyond the Basic Requirements.

Do you meet the Basic Requirements to be eligible to be appointed at the GS-9 level?
 A. Yes, I understand this will be a temporary not to exceed 2 year appointment.
 B. No
5. GS-11 Experience -OR- Education, AND- Certification, AND- Licensure:
In addition to the Basic Requirements, an Occupational Therapist at the GS-11 level MUST be certified -AND- licensed, -AND- meet one (1) of the following GS-11 Grade Requirements:
Completed a minimum of one year of experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade level and directly related to the position being filled; -OR-
Completed three (3) years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a degree in occupational therapy or a directly related field; -OR-
Possess a Doctorate in occupational therapy.
Do you possess the GS-11 Grade Requirements for Experience -OR- Education, -AND- Certification -AND- Licensure as annotated above?
 A. Yes, I meet the Basic Requirements, possess licensure AND certification, AND meet one (1) of the above GS-11 Grade Requirements.
 B. No, I do NOT meet ALL the GS-11 Grade Requirements.
6. GS-12 Experience, -AND- Certification, -AND- Licensure: 
In addition to the Basic Requirements, an Occupational Therapist at the full performance GS-12 level MUST be certified, -AND- licensed, -AND- possess at least one (1) year of experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level directly related to the position being filled.

Do you possess ALL the GS-12 Grade Requirements for Experience, -AND- Certification, -AND- Licensure?
 A. Yes, I am certified AND fully licensed as an OT and possess at least one (1) year of experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade.
 B. No, I do NOT possess ALL the required experience, education, or licensure to be appointed at the GS-12 level.
REMINDER - Current, permanent federal employees must recent SF-50 from the past 12 months which clearly shows current, permanent federal eligibility. Examples of appropriate SF-50's include:
General adjustment/Cost of living Increase
Within grade increases at the highest grade held
Promotions SF-50's at the highest grade held within the past year
HPTs will need to submit SF-50s during their time period to receive credit for eligibility. 
Cash Award, benefit changes or time off Awards 50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted.
Please check your electronic official personnel folder (eOPF) for your most recent SF-50. HR will not contact you for more info or documents. You can attach more than 1 SF50. All current, permanent federal employees applicants must ensure that they have included one or more SF50's showing current, permanent employment status in the past 12 months.
RESUME REMINDER: Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
* Updated and accurate duties (be as detailed as possible)
* Grade level (applicable for state or federal jobs)
* Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
* Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week).
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected