Position Title
Therapeutic Radiologic Technologist (Medical Dosimetrist)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSV-12798173-25-JJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 10, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements.

Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.

When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. If your resume does not support your questionnaire answers, we will not allow credit for your response(s).
BASIC REQUIREMENTS. To qualify for appointment to this position, all applicants must possess the following:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. English Language Proficiency. Medical Dosimetrists must be proficient in spoken and written English. See 38 U.S.C. 7403(f).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Education: Effective January 1, 2017, candidates are required to hold a minimum of a bachelor's degree and graduate from a medical dosimetry program of at least 12 months in duration. The medical dosimetry program must be accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT), or other accrediting bodies recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. JRCERT is the accrediting agency for the medical dosimetry programs recognized by the U.S. Department of Education.
Exception. Candidates who graduated prior to January 1, 2017, are considered to have met the basic education requirement provided they meet all Medical Dosimetrist Certification Board (MDCB) requirements and are in good standing.
Do you meet the education requirement or exception listed above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2a. Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your degree.
1. Name of Institution:
2. City and State:
3. Degree:
4. Major/Program:
5. Month and Year conferred:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. Certification. All applicants must be certified in medical dosimetry by the MDCB. Certified Medical Dosimetry (CMD) is the recognized credential for Medical Dosimetrists.

NOTE: CMDs who perform therapeutic radiologic technologist duties must also possess ARRT(T) certification and be assigned to a functional statement that combines both types of work.

NOTE: The Consumer-Patient Radiation Health and Safety Act of 1981, P.L. 97-35 requires persons who administer Therapeutic Radiological procedures meet the credentialing standards in 42 C.F.R. ? 75. They must have completed an educational program meeting or exceeding the standards described in that regulation and be accredited by an organization recognized by the U.S. Department of Education or be a Radiation Therapist certified in medical dosimetry.

Do you meet all of the certification requirements listed above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
GRADE DETERMINATIONS. In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met when determining the grade of candidates.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. Medical Dosimetrist, GS-12.
Experience. At this level, candidates must possess at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level that demonstrates the core competencies described at that level.

Do you have at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to GS-11 (full performance level) that demonstrates the core competencies at that level?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following technical KSAs:
(a) Knowledge of the care and use of radioactive resources for implementation and treatment delivery.
(b) Skill at effective communication and leadership as demonstrated by providing orientation and training for staff, providing input for yearly appraisals, directing progress and coordination of workload, and ensuring compliance with standard operating procedures and directives to provide continuity of care.
(c) Skill in providing guidance and expertise related to all aspects of the treatment planning process.
(d) Skill to independently perform complex treatment procedures as evidenced by completing tasks such as developing and troubleshooting highly complex isodose treatment plans delineating critical structures and tumor volumes, performing weekly chart checks, performing QA verifications and providing training on all aspects of the Record and Verify System such as Mosaiq or Aria.
(e) Ability to resolve complex physical and geometric errors in radiation equipment, simulation procedures and treatment delivery implementation.
(f) Ability to follow protocols including, but not limited to developing and implementing policies and standard operating procedures, participating in research programs, ensuring compliance with the radiation safety office, national program office, and accrediting agencies, and following established quality standard measures.
(g) Ability to apply a broad range of specific methods of radiation measurements including, but not limited to, diode, ion chamber, thermoluminescent dosimeter, or film measurement as directed by a qualified Medical Physicist and perform or assist with the QA procedures as directed by a qualified Medical Physicist.

Can you fully demonstrate all the above KSA's?
 A. Yes
 B. No
RESUME REMINDER: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
-Job title
-Month & Year start/end dates (e.g. June 2016 to April 2018)
-Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
-Duties (be as detailed as possible)
-Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held

Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

5 Tips for Writing a Federal Resume - FederalPay.org (https://www.federalpay.org/articles/5-tips-for-writing-a-federal-resume)
SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action

If you are claiming Federal Employee Eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent (not more than 1 year old) Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50 (Not an award SF-50). Your SF-50 must include:
Position title, pay plan/series/grade
Tenure code
Position Occupied type of appointment (Competitive or Excepted)
Within Grade Increase, General Adjustments, or Promotion SF-50's are best, Award SF-50's do not include this pertinent information.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected