Position Title
Contract Specialist
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERK-25-12829507-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, November 5, 2025 to Friday, November 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Current Department of Army Civilian Employees Applying on Time-Limited Assignments
    
This job opportunity announcement is open to current, permanent Army employees that would occupy the position under a time-limited promotion, reassignment or change to lower grade not to exceed (NTE). You are eligible in this category if you fall into one of the following:

•  ARMY CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1." Army employees can access their SF-50 at: MyBiz.
    
•  ARMY CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA).  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Army Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").
    
Supporting documentation: You are required to submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of the Army employee in one of the categories described above. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.
    
Note: The "current Army employee" category does not include permanent Army National Guard employees in the competitive service.
    
Are you eligible to apply as a Current Department of Army Civilian Employee Applying on Time-Limited Assignments?
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Contract Specialist GS-1102-12 position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Contract Specialist at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) from an accredited educational institution. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not meet the education requirements above. However, I am a current DoD employee, in any occupational series, who has served on or before September 30, 2000, as follows: (1) Served as a GS/equivalent-1102 position or contracting officer position with authority to award or administer contracts above the SAT in any Federal agency; OR (2) Served as a military member in a comparable military occupational specialty.
 I do not meet the education requirements above. However, I am a current member of the armed forces who occupied a position within an occupational specialty similar to the GS-1102 series on or before September 30, 2000.
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Contract Specialist at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes work that involves; 1) Performing pre-award or post-award functions (e.g., price cost analysis and negotiations) related to civil works or military funded projects; AND 2) Preparing contract changes or modifications related to supply, services, construction contracts, and Architect Engineering (AE) using the FAR and DFARS.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙