Position Title
Administrative Specialist
Agency
Federal Emergency Management Agency
Announcement Number
FEMA-TC-12766541-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, August 5, 2025 to Thursday, August 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)

Are you a current or former FEMA Stafford Act employee eligible under the Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)?

Current and former FEMA Stafford Act employees who can document 64 or more hours of paid time, per pay period, with no breaks in service* for 78 or more consecutive pay periods since August 1, 2014, are eligible to be considered for this Merit Promotion Job Opportunity Announcement. (*Note: A "break in service" is defined as 3 or more days in non-pay status, except as allowed under 5 CFR § 315.201(b)(3)(ii) for special circumstances such as military deployment, etc.).

To verify eligibility, you must submit: 
"Notice of DRRA Eligibility" provided by OCHCO.  If you believe you're eligible, but have not received your notice, please reach out to the HR Specialist listed in the announcement.
Your FEMA SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your appointment in the excepted service under the Stafford Act.  We recommend attaching a SF-50 which indicates your highest grade and step.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Current FEMA Employee

Are you a current FEMA employee who currently holds OR has previously held a permanent (not time limited) position in the competitive service?

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your permanent competitive status.  Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions.  You may need to submit more than one SF-50.  Your SF-50 must reflect:
Block 24 - Tenure:  1 - Permanent (career) or 2 - Conditional: AND
Block 34 - Position Occupied:  1 - Competitive Service
If you previously held a career or career conditional appointment, you must provide your current SF-50 and your SF-50 which shows competitive status eligibility.
Please do not submit an award SF-50, as it might not indicate your grade level and step.  
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. FEMA Employees Only Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)
Are you a current or former FEMA employee who is considered displaced or surplus (you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction in Force)?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, your most recent performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. How did you hear about this Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) job opportunity?
 A. USAJOBS
 B. FEMA's Social Media (Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Online Job board (Indeed, Zip Recruiter, etc.)
 D. FEMA.gov Careers Website
 E. FEMA Virtual Hiring Event
 F. FEMA On-Site Hiring Event
 G. College/University/Alumni Organization
 H. FEMA Employee Referral
 I. Other
2. Are you a retiree receiving a federal annuity (either military or civilian)? Or have you accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years? (Select all that apply.)
 A. Yes, I'm receiving a military annuity.
 B. Yes, I'm receiving a civilian annuity.
 C. Yes, I've received a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
 D. No, I am not receiving a federal annuity and have not accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
3. Are you a current FEMA employee?
 A. I'm a current FEMA Local Hire Employee
 B. I'm a current FEMA Reservist Employee
 C. I'm a current FEMA CORE Employee
 D. I'm a current FEMA PFT Employee
 E. I'm a current FEMA Senior Executive Service Employee
 F. I'm not a current FEMA Employee
4. Are you currently serving, or have served within the last five years, as a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) employee in the Executive Branch?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Please provide the following information regarding your political appointment(s): 1. Official Title of Position; 2. Type of Appointment (i.e. Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career SES); 3. Name of Agency; 4. Date Position began; and 5. Date Position ended. (NOTE: If you have never held a political appointment, please enter N/A.)
6. Within the past five years, have you received a buyout or payment through the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment Authority (VSIP) when separating from a federal position?
 A. No
 B. Yes, and I understand candidates who are reemployed with the federal government within five years after receiving a buyout or payment under VSIP are required to repay the entire amount of the incentive prior to their onboarding date.
7. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?

Select "Not Applicable" if this question does not apply to you.
 A. Yes
 B. No, but I have an exemption
 C. I am a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, and have NOT registered with the Selective Service System and do NOT have an exemption.
 D. Not Applicable
2. All FEMA employees are subject to 24-hour on-call in the event of an emergency and all Federal employees may be subject to emergency deployment. In the event of an emergency deployment, travel requirements may be extensive in nature (weeks to months), with little advance notice, and may require relocation to emergency sites, some of which are quite austere. The length of deployment may last anywhere from days to months, depending upon the nature of the emergency or disaster.

Every FEMA employee is considered an emergency manager and each employee has regular and recurring emergency management responsibilities, although not every position requires routine deployment to disaster sites. Your emergency management duties may vary depending on the needs of the Agency, your particular skills, and certain personal circumstances. All positions may require irregular work hours, work at locations other than the official duty station, and may include duties other than those specified in the employee's official position description.

Are you able to meet this commitment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

In order to be hired for this position, applicants must undergo and successfully pass a background investigation. This may include a review of financial issues, such as delinquency, child support and/or tax obligations, as well as certain criminal offenses and illegal use of or possession of drugs.

Are you willing to undergo a background investigation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Your responses to the questions below will be used in the evaluation of your qualifications for this position. Your resume and application materials must support the level of experience and/or education you claim in this questionnaire, if after a complete review of your application package, a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications, you may be rated ineligible for this position.
1. Grade 9: Select the response that best describes your education and/or experience.

 A. I possess at least one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-7, as described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I have a Master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.
 C. I possess a combination of specialized experience, as described in the vacancy announcement, and related graduate level education, beyond the first full year of graduate level study, that when combined, meet the qualification requirements for this position. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating
 D. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.
2. Please indicate where and when you obtained each of the specialized experience requirements listed in the Qualifications section of this Job Opportunity Announcement. Include in your response: (1) the area of specialized experience; (2) the place of employment; and, (3) the specific dates of employment the experience was gained in MM/DD/YYYY - MM/DD/YYYY format. Your response must be supported by your resume.

Example: Experience in developing and delivering presentations and training; ABC Company; 10/01/2016 - 05/15/2018.
(limit 500 characters)
3. From the following choices identify those areas that reflect your experience with correspondence procedures.
 A. Reviews correspondence for clarity, coherence and spelling and returns to the originator for correcting spelling or formatting procedures.
 B. Prepares responses to routine requests.
 C. Completes form letter requiring some writing.
 D. Writing/editing of routine correspondence.
 E. None of the above.
4. Do you have experience coordinating events, meetings and/or general office activities with other administrative staff?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Indicate your level of experience with working closely with individuals and groups to resolve problems, analyze alternatives, negotiate differences, and make improvements.
 A. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 E. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
6. From the list below select the type of experience you have had which indicates your ability to identify and analyze problems and develop solutions to those problems.
 A. I have analyzed documents and determined the impact on tasks.
 B. I have located and applied appropriate guidance to accomplish tasks.
 C. I have analyzed a problem, evaluated the guidance, and developed a solution.
 D. None of the above.
7. From the list below, select the response that best describes your experience utilizing Microsoft SharePoint for data analysis, tracking, and management.
 A. I have utilized lists and libraries to analyze, track, and manage data.
 B. I have created lists and libraries to analyze, track, and manage data.
 C. I have experience as a site owner, responsible for overseeing a site with lists and libraries used to analyze, track, and manage data.
 D. I do not possess any of the experience listed above.
8. Do you possess experience assisting in the development, writing, and editing of documents in a professional environment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Select the statement(s) that describe(s) your experience communicating information to employees, customers, managers, and/or senior officials.
 A. I have communicated with co-workers within a team environment.
 B. I have coordinated work within the office with clerical, administrative, and/or other personnel.
 C. I have directed more technical inquiries to appropriate parties.
 D. I have made contacts with other offices within and outside the organization to obtain or provide information.
 E. I have received telephone calls, greeted visitors, and/or determined where callers/visitors/inquiries should be directed.
 F. I have screened calls and referred calls to appropriate staff members.
 G. I have compiled materials for use in reports, briefings, and meetings for senior officials.
 H. I have assisted in the preparation of briefing materials or supporting documentation for use by senior officials at meetings.
 I. I have followed up with staff in order to gain the information necessary for meetings.
 J. I have summarized meeting or conference discussions in written summaries.
 K. I have handled sensitive or confidential information and/or documents in an appropriate manner.
 L. None of the above
10. Choose the statement(s) that best describe your customer service skills used as a regular part of your job to support organizational goals and leadership.
 A. I have advised external and internal customers of problems and delays and proposed solutions for addressing the problems in order to meet customer expectations.
 B. I have successfully done work that regularly involved interacting with difficult customers, clients, co-workers, or supervisors.
 C. I have communicated both technical and non-technical information to others within and outside of my organization or workplace.
 D. I have researched and responded to requests for assistance.
 E. I have utilized a tracking system to process and follow up on requests for assistance.
 F. I have kept customers informed of the status of their requests for assistance.
 G. I have contacted customers to provide information on agency or organizational programs.
 H. I have not performed any of the above tasks.
11. Do you have experiencing serving in a liaison role between various units or departments within a company?
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Do you have experience collaborating with others as part of a team to accomplish work-related activities?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
13. Please take this opportunity to review your question responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you understand this statement, have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected