Position Title
Food Service Worker - Shenanigan's, PMRF
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
24454-2 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 19, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Conditions of Employment
Completion of the attached questionnaire is required.
1. Do you reside within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position?

The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 A. Yes, I reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
 B. No, I do not reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
2. I am willing and able to wear a prescribed uniform while performing duties of this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I am willing and able to work an Flexible work schedule. This schedule describes work performed without a regularly scheduled tour of duty; hours are from 0-40 hours per week.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. This position requires employees to work on weekends, day, night, and holidays. Are you able to work on weekends, days, nights, and holidays?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF), Food and Beverage department at the Pacific Missile Range Facility located in Barking Sands, Hawaii on the island of Kaua'i. This questionnaire is a requirement for your application package and answers must be supported by your resume and/or additional documentation as necessary. The resume and supporting documents you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. Please ensure you read the questions thoroughly and review your responses for accuracy before you submit your assessment. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
1. This position will require you to prepare and cook foods with short preparation times. You may be required to work as a member of a team. Are you willing and able to work as a member of a team?
 A. Yes, I can work as a member of a team but I do not want to.
 B. Yes, I am willing and able to work as a member of a team.
 C. No, I am not able to work as a member of a team.
2. This position involves adding, subtracting, multiplying, and dividing all units of measure, performing operations with like common and decimal fractions, computing ratios, rate, and percents, and arithmetic operations involving all American monetary units. Does your resume and/or supporting documents reflect this skill and/or knowledge?
 A. No, but I have this skill/knowledge.
 B. Yes, my resume and/or supporting documents reflect this skill/knowledge.
 C. No, my resume does not reflect this skill/knowledge.
3. The skills/knowledge of this position involve applying common sense understanding to carry out or receive instructions in written, oral or diagrammatic form. Are you able to apply this skill without more than normal supervision?
 A. Yes, I am able to apply this skill without more than normal supervision.
 B. Yes, I am able to apply this skill, but I do not want to.
 C. No, I am not able to apply this skill without more than normal supervision.
4. In this position, you will be responsible for keeping a neat, clean and organized work area that includes the equipment used to prepare food items. Do you understand this responsibility and are you capable of performing this function?
 A. No, I do not understand this responsibility and I do not want to perform this function.
 B. Yes, I understand this responsibility and I am capable of performing this function.
5. Have you read the announcement in its entirety and does the resume and/or supporting documents you submitted for this announcement reflect the answers provided in this questionnaire?
 A. I do not wish to provide a resume and/or supporting documents at this time.
 B. No, I did not read the announcement in its entirety and the documents provided do not support the answers I provided in this assessment.
 C. Yes, I read the announcement in its entirety and the documents I provided support the answers I provided in this assessment.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected