Position Title
Kinesiotherapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-12767201-25-RR Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 17, 2025 to Tuesday, July 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
7
9
11
2. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position within the Department of Veterans Affairs Health Administration. The following section is used to determine basic requirements for appointment in the federal government and qualification for a Kinesiotherapist. The full performance level of this vacancy is GS-11. The actual grade at which an applicant may be selected for this vacancy is in the range of GS-07 to GS-11. 

Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and/or education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience and/or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. BASIC REQUIREMENT: 
EDUCATION: 
(1) A bachelor's degree or higher from a program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Program, with a concentration/emphasis in kinesiotherapy. (Copy of transcript).

OR

(2) A bachelor's degree or higher with a concentration/emphasis in kinesiotherapy or exercise science related field and registered as a Kinesiotherapist in good standing with the Council of Professional Standards for Kinesiotherapy (COPSKT). (Copy of transcript).

OR

(3) A master's degree or higher with a degree in exercise science, kinesiology, human performance or a related field, which has been approved by COPSKT and a certificate verifying completion of a Center of Excellence (COE) Kinesiotherapy clinical training program. The completion of the certificate ensures that COPSKT has approved the degree program as part of the application process for the COE internship. (copy of Transcript)

Foreign Graduates. Graduates of a foreign program must meet the requirements in subparagraph 3b if they have a full unrestricted and current registration to practice kinesiotherapy in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth (i.e., Puerto Rico) of the United States or in the District of Columbia. They must have at a minimum, proof of a degree from an accredited college or university (or foreign equivalent, as verified through an independent credentialing evaluation company).

Do you possess the above education requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2.

Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your bachelor's /master's degree.

Name of Institution:

City and State:

Degree:

Major/Program:

Month and Year conferred:

Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. BASIC REQUIREMENT:ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY:

Kinesiotherapist candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by 38 U.S.C. § 7403 (f).

Do you possess the above requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. BASIC REQUIREMENT:

REGISTRATION:

All applicants must be registered in kinesiotherapy in good standing with the Council of Professional Standards for Kinesiotherapy (COPSKT).

Do you possess the above requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5.

Please provide your registration information. 

Name on Registration:

Issuing state or territory:

Complete registration number:

Expiration date:

Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
6. GRADE DETERMINATION:  GS 07

(1) Experience. None beyond the basic requirements.

(2) Assignment. Individuals at this grade level serve as an entry level Kinesiotherapist. The entry level Kinesiotherapist receives guidance from more experienced staff members. They are responsible for but not limited to: examination, evaluation, treatment intervention, and prevention of musculoskeletal, neuromuscular, cardiopulmonary, and integumentary impairments, functional limitations, and disabilities.

Do you possess the above requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. GRADE DETERMINATION:  GS 09

(1) Experience/Education. One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS 07) or education equivalent to two full years of progressively higher level graduate education or a master's degree from a university or college in the field of kinesiotherapy or an exercise science related field.GS 07 equivalent experience: examination, evaluation, treatment intervention, and prevention of musculoskeletal, neuromuscular, cardiopulmonary, and integumentary impairments, functional limitations, and disabilities.
(2) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
(a) Knowledge of policies and procedures of kinesiotherapy.
(b) Knowledge of assistive devices to make recommendations, including fit and function of assistive devices with the ability to recognize appropriate prosthetic/orthotic devices for the patient.
(c) Knowledge of evaluation and assessment tools in applying therapeutic techniques.
(d) Skill in instructing patients and families in a therapeutic exercise program.

Do you possess the above requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. GRADE DETERMINATION:  GS 11

(1) Experience/Education. One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS 09) or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or three academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a degree in kinesiotherapy or an exercise science related field. (pls provide a copy of transcript if you are claiming education)

GS 09 equivalent experience to include but not limited to the following: (a) Knowledge of policies and procedures of kinesiotherapy. (b) Knowledge of assistive devices to make recommendations, including fit and function of assistive devices [with the ability to recognize appropriate prosthetic/orthotic devices for the patient. (c) Knowledge of evaluation and assessment tools] in applying therapeutic techniques. (d) Skill in instructing patients and families in a therapeutic exercise program.

AND

(2) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
(a) Skill in communicating and coordinating with patients, families, caregivers, and other health care professions to facilitate the multidisciplinary treatment process.
(b) Knowledge of evidence-based kinesiotherapy to provide skilled rehabilitation interventions to a wide variety of patients having diverse and multiple disabilities.
(c) Ability to conduct independent assessments using highly specialized evaluations and diagnostic tests.
(d) Knowledge of learning principles, behavioral intervention, and innovational techniques for patient and caregiver education.
(e) Ability to adapt assessment tools and treatment to the complexity of the diagnosis or disabilities and demonstrate the clinical reasoning necessary to identify the need for further in-depth specific assessment of function and utilization of non-standard methods and techniques.
(f) Ability to use clinical reasoning necessary to identify the need for further in-depth specific assessment and/or continuation of treatment.

Do you possess the above requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Grandfathering Provision.

All persons employed in VHA as a Kinesiotherapist on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education and registration that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it, the following provisions apply: 

(1) Such employees may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance (journeyman) level, or changed to a lower grade within the occupation, but may not be promoted beyond the journeyman level or placed in supervisory or managerial positions.
(2) Employees who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard, may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed on a temporary or permanent basis until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard.
(3) Employees initially grandfathered into this occupation, who subsequently obtain additional education and/or license/certification/registration that meet all the basic requirements of this qualification standard, must maintain the required credentials as a condition of employment in the occupation.
(4) Kinesiotherapists who are converted to title 38 hybrid status under this provision, and subsequently leave the occupation, will lose their protected status, and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of re-entry to the occupation.
Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title
Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2021)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week if part-time)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held.
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected