Position Title
Kinesiotherapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSR-12828714-26-AL Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, November 4, 2025 to Monday, November 10, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the full time Kinesiotherapist position located in the Rehabilitation Care Line at the Chillicothe Ohio VA Medical Center in Chillicothe, Ohio.

Please Note:  The Human Resources Specialist will not make assumptions regarding your qualifications and/or experience so please be sure that you provide a detailed resume along with other supporting documentation (i.e. copy of transcripts, copy of certification, etc.) as proof that you meet all of the qualifications listed. Please follow all instructions carefully. Errors or omissions will affect consideration for employment.


Basic Requirements for the position of Kinesiotherapist GS-635


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency. Kinesiotherapist candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by [38 U.S.C. § 7403 (f).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Education Requirement. You must meet at least one of the requirements below:
Bachelor's degree or higher from a program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Program, with a concentration/emphasis in kinesiotherapy; OR
Bachelor's degree or higher with a concentration/emphasis in kinesiotherapy or exercise science related field and registered as a kinesiotherapist in good standing with the Council of Professional Standards for Kinesiotherapy (COPSKT); OR
Master's degree or higher with a degree in exercise science, kinesiology, human performance or a related field, which has been approved by COPSKT and a certificate verifying completion of a Center of Excellence (COE) Kinesiotherapy clinical training program. The completion of the certificate ensures that COPSKT has approved the degree program as part of the application process for the COE internship.
NOTE: Graduates of a foreign program must meet the requirements if they have a full unrestricted and current registration to practice kinesiotherapy in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth (i.e., Puerto Rico) of the United States or in the District of Columbia. They must have at a minimum, proof of a degree from an accredited college or university (or foreign equivalent, as verified through an independent credentialing evaluation company).

Do you meet the education requirement as described above?
 Yes
 No


2a.
Please provide your education information.
Name of Academic Institution:
City and State:
Level of Education:
Month and Year conferred:


3.
Registration Requirement. All applicants must be registered in kinesiotherapy in good standing with the Council of Professional Standards for Kinesiotherapy (COPSKT).

Exception. Non-registered applicants at the GS-7 and GS-9 level who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for appointment, may be given a temporary appointment as a graduate kinesiotherapist under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(a)(1)(B). Pursuant to 38 U.S.C § 7405(c)(2)(B), the appointment cannot exceed two years if the non-registered applicant's registration is pending with the COPSKT. Applicants who fail to obtain registration during this temporary full- time appointment must be terminated. For grade levels at or above the full performance level, the candidate must be registered.

Do you meet the registration requirement as described above?
 Yes, I meet the registration requirement.
 Yes, I meet the exception for the registration requirement.
 No, I do not meet the registration requirement or the exception.


3a.
Please provide your registration information if applicable. 
Name on Registration:
Complete registration number:
Initial Issuance Date:
Expiration date:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Grandfathering Provision. All persons employed in VHA as a Kinesiotherapist on the effective date (July 16, 2020) of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education and registration that are part of the basic requirements of the Kinesiotherapist occupation.

Do you meet the qualifications standards based on the grandfathering provision as described above?
 Yes
 No


Minimum Requirement for GS-9 Level


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Experience/Education. One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-7); OR education equivalent to two full years of progressively higher level graduate education; OR a master's degree from a university or college in the field of kinesiotherapy or an exercise science related field.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
Knowledge of policies and procedures of kinesiotherapy.
Knowledge of assistive devices to make recommendations, including fit and function of assistive devices with the ability to recognize appropriate prosthetic/orthotic devices for the patient.
Knowledge of evaluation and assessment tools in applying therapeutic techniques.
Skill in instructing patients and families in a therapeutic exercise program.

Do you meet the requirements as described above?

REMINDER: This experience must be fully detailed in your resume.
 Yes
 No


Minimum Requirement for GS-11 Level


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Experience/Education. One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-11); OR a Ph.D.; OR equivalent doctoral degree or three academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a degree in kinesiotherapy or an exercise science related field. 

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Skill in communicating and coordinating with patients, families, caregivers, and other health care professions to facilitate the multidisciplinary treatment process.
Knowledge of evidence-based kinesiotherapy to provide skilled rehabilitation interventions to a wide variety of patients having multiple disabilities.
Ability to conduct independent assessments using highly specialized evaluations and diagnostic tests.
Knowledge of learning principles, behavioral intervention, and innovational techniques for patient and caregiver education.
Ability to adapt assessment tools and treatment to the complexity of the diagnosis or disabilities and demonstrate the clinical reasoning necessary to identify the need for further in-depth specific assessment of function and utilization of non-standard methods and techniques.
Ability to use clinical reasoning necessary to identify the need for further in-depth specific assessment and/or continuation of treatment.

Do you meet the requirements as described above?

REMINDER: This experience must be fully detailed in your resume.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙