Position Title
Lead Law Enforcement Specialist (Firearms Instructor)
Agency
Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers
Announcement Number
FLETC-TMO/CHS-25-12758805 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 16, 2025 to Tuesday, July 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you currently employed as a permanent career or career-conditional employee with the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers (FLETC) in the Competitive Service?

To verify your eligibility as a current FLETC employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:

• Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• Your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. I am willing and able to possess and maintain a valid state-issued driver's license to conduct official government business.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I am willing and able to undergo pre-appointment drug testing for illegal drug use.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This position is subject to Lautenberg Amendment. Persons convicted of misdemeanor crimes of domestic violence are prohibited from occupying this position. Have you been convicted of a crime in domestic violence?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4.

Are you applying for a promotion? It is a promotion if you are applying for a general schedule (GS) position that is higher than the grade level you currently hold or previously held in the past. To be considered for a promotion, you must provide SF-50(s) that shows that you have held the next lower GS grade for at least one year. SF-50s that have an effective date within the past year (e.g., General Adjustment SF-50 from this year or Within Rate/Grade Increases (WRI/WGI) SF-50 within a year) do not clearly show that you meet the one-year time-in-grade requirement. That means if you submit an SF-50 that is dated within the last year, you must submit another SF-50 that is dated more than one year ago to clearly demonstrate you meet the time-in-grade requirements.

 A. Yes, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a promotion. I have submitted one or two SF-50(s) that show I have held the next lower GS grade or equivalent (non-GS pay system) for at least one year.
 B. No, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a GS grade that I currently hold or have held in the past. I have submitted an SF-50 to support this claim.
 C. Yes, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a promotion but I have not held the next lower grade or equivalent (non-GS pay system) for at least one year. I was recently promoted to my current grade level within the last year so I do not meet the time-in-grade requirements for promotion.
 D. No, I am not a GS employee and I have not been a GS employee within the last year (e.g. I am in a pay band, or I am an FWS employee, or I have never worked for the federal government) so this is not applicable to me.
5. I am willing to complete an initial and annual physical examination that measures visual, hearing, and physical acuity.
 A. Yes
 B. No
FLETC Data Questions
1. Select the types of awards you have received within the last three years.
 A. Quality Step Increase
 B. Special Act or Time Off Award
 C. Performance Award
 D. Honorary Award
 E. Letter of Commendation
 F. None of the above
2. List any education and/or training related to this position (do not provide copies of certificates).
3. Select the rating level you received, as applicable to your agency's performance management system, for your last performance appraisal. Please provide a copy of your last performance appraisal.
 A. Outstanding | Achieved Excellence
 B. Exceeds Fully Successful/Highly Successful | Exceeded Expectations
 C. Fully Successful/Pass | Achieved Expectations
 D. Minimally Satisfactory/Minimally Acceptable
 E. Unacceptable/Fail
 F. None of the above
4. How did you learn about this Department of Homeland Security (DHS) job opportunity announcement?
--Select-- 
--Select--
Career Fair
Met a FLETC representative at a recruitment event
Magazine
Newspaper
Radio
TV
Poster
Private Employment Office
State Employment Office (Unemployment Office)
Agency Human Resources Development (bulletin board or other announcement)
Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college
Federal, state, or local Job Information Center
Religious organization
College, university, or career placement counselor
Friend or relative working for this agency
Friend or relative not working for this agency
USAJOBS
Professional Association
Publication
Conference
College Event
Private information service
LinkedIn
Other
5. I have thoroughly reviewed the 'How to Apply/Required Documents' & 'Qualifications' sections of this Vacancy Announcement to determine which supplemental documents to submit. This may include: Transcripts to verify undergraduate/graduate education; A Current/Non-Award SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, noting current position title, series, grade, position occupied, tenure, highest salary (including basic pay) and duty location if I am a current/former Federal employee; DD-214 if I am a veteran (and SF-15/VA Letter if applicable), etc. I understand that failure to fax or upload required documents by the vacancy announcement's closing date may result in loss of consideration. Answer to this question is required.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. In order to be considered for this position you must meet one of the selective placement factors. From the list below select the statement(s) that describes your experience.
 A. I have held a position as a sworn law enforcement officer, or agent with full arrest authority in the prevention, detection, apprehension, detention and/or investigation of felony and/or misdemeanor violations of Federal, state, local, tribal, or military criminal laws.
 B. I have held a position in the 1801 occupational series.
 C. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. Have you graduated from a law enforcement academy? If graduated from an academy, please ensure your resume contains the academy's name and location (city, state) as well as your graduation date (MM/DD/YYYY).

For U.S. Coast Guard personnel only - If you were certified through the Boarding Officer Personnel Qualifications Standard Certification Program (PQS), you must include the certification date in your resume. You may be asked to provide a copy of the certification. Failure to provide this information in your resume may result in your loss of consideration.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. From the options below, select the one statement that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for a Lead Law Enforcement Specialist (Firearms Instructor), GS-1801-13. NOTE: Your resume must support your claim of specialized experience, i.e. where, when and how you performed the work, or you may be found ineligible.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-12) or pay band in the Federal service, or equivalent experience in the private or public sector performing the following duties: leading, overseeing, and/or performing firearms duties such as qualifying other officer/agents as a primary or collateral responsibility.
 B. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-12) or pay band in the Federal service, or equivalent experience in the private or public sector instructing, conducting research, development, and modification of basic and advanced law enforcement training curriculum in the firearms topical areas to include: Basic Marksmanship Instruction (BMI); Semiautomatic Pistol Course (SPC); and Firearms Safety Rules and Regulations.
 C. None of the above.
4. From the list below, select the response that best describes your years of experience as a full-time law enforcement officer/agent with arrest authority in the prevention, detection, apprehension, detention and /or investigation of felony and/or misdemeanor violations of Federal, state, local, tribal, or military criminal laws.
 A. More than 10 years.
 B. 6 – 10 years
 C. 1 – 5 years
 D. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. Have you instructed law enforcement classes in an academy setting?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Choose from the list below, all of the following Firearms curriculum you have developed and/or revised.
 A. Firearms Safety
 B. Law Enforcement Handgun
 C. Assembly, Disassembly and Maintenance of firearms
 D. Basic Marksmanship Concepts
 E. Reduce Light Shooting Techniques
 F. Law Enforcement Shotgun
 G. Law Enforcement Rifle
 H. Non-Lethal Training Ammunition Exercises
 I. Virtual Firearms Simulation Systems
 J. None of the above
7. Choose from the list below, all of the following Firearms curriculum you have instructed.
 A. Firearms Safety
 B. Law Enforcement Handgun
 C. Assembly, Disassembly and Maintenance of firearms
 D. Basic Marksmanship Concepts
 E. Reduce Light Shooting Techniques
 F. Law Enforcement Shotgun
 G. Law Enforcement Rifle
 H. Non-Lethal Training Ammunition Exercises
 I. Virtual Firearms Simulation Systems
 J. None of the above
8. Choose from the list below, all of the following Training Programs you have coordinated as a Firearms Instructor.
 A. Basic Law Enforcement Training Programs
 B. Advanced Law Enforcement Training Programs
 C. None of the above
9. Choose the answer that best describes your experience composing summaries based upon research, for use in updating existing course material, and in providing updated student lesson plans.
 A. I have not had experience, education, or training in developing training programs.
 B. I have completed formal education or training in designing training programs.
 C. I have worked within a training program design process on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure correct compliance with procedures.
 D. I have utilized a training program design as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
10. This position requires collaboration on the development of new or modification of current training. Choose the statement(s) that describe(s) services you have provided as a regular part of your job.
 A. Facilitated communications and activities among representatives of training, to include supervisors and other training staff members.
 B. Reviewed content of training courses in collaboration with stakeholders.
 C. Negotiated changes to training content based on collaboration with subject matter experts and stakeholders.
 D. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
11. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, ALL of the information provided on this application is true, accurate, and complete, and that this application for employment is made in good faith. I understand that a false statement on any part of this application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that I may be punished by fine or imprisonment for falsification of my employment application (18 USC 1001). I understand that information I give may be investigated as allowed by law or Executive order. Do you understand and agree to all the above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected