Position Title
Investigative Specialist
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12750208-SVD-IMP-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 2, 2025 to Friday, July 11, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current DHS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who is in a permanent position that is in the competitive service (see block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type)?

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of our SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who has held, or currently holds, a permanent position in the competitive service (see block #34 of your SF-50) with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?  

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
 Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. I acknowledge the following conditions if I choose to submit my resume through the USAJOBS Resume Builder:
I understand that resumes submitted through USAJOBS Resume Builder are converted to a PDF format when they are transmitted to USA Staffing from the USAJOBS applicant interface and additional spaces/page gaps are added to resumes during the Resume Builder conversion process;
Based on the above conditions, I understand that USCIS strongly encourages me to save my resume to a PDF document and upload the PDF document instead of submitting my resume created through Resume Builder;
I understand that USCIS' human resources will only review the first 5 pages of my resume to determine eligibility/qualifications for this position;
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I have met this requirement for consideration.

(Note: Additional guidance regarding this requirement is available within the How to Submit Your Resume section of the USCIS Resume Requirement FAQs.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 D. No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.
3. This advertisement is open for current permanent USCIS employees of a specified office. Refer to the "Clarification from the agency" section of the vacancy announcement for office specific details. Are you a current permanent employee of the specific USCIS office listed in the "Clarification from the agency" section of this vacancy announcement? Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement, that shows you are a current permanent employee of the USCIS office (block #22 of your SF-50) listed in the announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I acknowledge that this position will NOT place me into a remote position and this position will NOT allow for any duty station relocation. If selected I will remain reporting to my current duty station.
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I understand this requirement.
By answering NO to this question, I am asking to be removed from further consideration for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. GS-14 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
2. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
3. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-14. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-14 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
The following section contains a multitude of question types. If you see a radio button, you can only select one response. If you see a checkbox, you may select all that apply.
4. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience in developing investigative plans for employee misconduct investigations?
 A. I have no experience, education, or training in developing investigative plans for employee misconduct reports.
 B. I have led or supervised a team developing investigative plans for employee misconduct investigations.
 C. I have independently developed investigative plans for employee misconduct investigations.
 D. I have assisted others in developing investigative plans for employee misconduct investigations.
5. Which type of employee investigations have you performed?
 A. Misconduct
 B. Fraud
 C. Conflict of interest
 D. False statements
 E. Kickbacks
 F. Other administrative violations
 G. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
6. I have conducted investigations of egregious misconduct by senior managers.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience conducting investigations of employee misconduct?
 A. I have education and/or training related to conducting investigations of employee misconduct.
 B. I have assisted other investigators in conducting investigations of employee misconduct.
 C. I have been the case agent on investigations of employee misconduct.
 D. I have led a team of investigators in conducting investigations of employee misconduct.
 E. I have no experience related to investigations of employee misconduct.
8. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience advising on evidence procedures?
 A. I have not had formal education and/or training advising on evidence procedures.
 B. I have had education and/or training in evidence procedures.
 C. Under close supervision I have advised on evidence procedures.
 D. I have independently advised on evidence procedures.
 E. I have supervised others in, or been regularly consulted as an expert in, advising on evidence procedures.
9. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience analyzing investigative reports?
 A. I reviewed investigative reports in a training/education setting, but do not have professional experience.
 B. I independently analyzed investigative reports by identifying the issues in the investigation and providing a written report detailing the issues.
 C. I analyzed investigative reports under supervision, where I drafted a written report detailing the issues and a superior reviewed and finalized it.
 D. None of the above.
10. Which investigative activities have you performed?
 A. Written reports of investigations
 B. Developed investigated plans
 C. Collected evidence
 D. Utilized investigative databases
 E. Conducted complainant interviews
 F. Conducted witness interviews
 G. Conducted subject interviews
 H. Administering rights
 I. None of the above
11. What is the most extensive evidence you have reviewed to ascertain an individual's credibility or veracity?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to ascertaining an individual's credibility or veracity
 B. I completed education and/or training related to ascertaining an individual's credibility or veracity, but do not have professional experience.
 C. Limited amount of information (i.e., preliminary encounter, without background information or research).
 D. Detailed screening information (e.g., from client background, job applicant, or criminal investigation screenings).
 E. Extensive investigation (e.g., deposition, judicial proceeding, administrative benefits hearing, attorney-client merit interview).
12. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience in developing investigative plans for employee misconduct investigations?
 A. I have no experience, education, or training in developing investigative plans for employee misconduct reports.
 B. I have led or supervised a team developing investigative plans for employee misconduct investigations.
 C. I have independently developed investigative plans for employee misconduct investigations.
 D. I have assisted others in developing investigative plans for employee misconduct investigations.
13. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience conducting non-adversarial fact-gathering interviews?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education in conducting fact-gathering interviews.
 B. I completed education and/or training in conducting fact-gathering interviews, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I conducted routine interviews (e.g., standard questions, no issues).
 D. I conducted in-depth interviews that required a detailed dialogue with the interviewees to gather required information.
 E. I conducted in-depth confidential interviews that required the further analysis of background information and the testimony elicited to gauge credibility.
14. Which statement best describes your experience writing investigative reports?
 A. I have had education/training in writing investigative reports.
 B. I have assisted senior investigators in writing investigative reports.
 C. I have independently written investigative reports.
 D. I have provided review of written investigative reports.
 E. I have no experience related to writing investigative reports.
15. Which statement describes your experience preparing data and reports?
 A. I assisted senior staff by collating and compiling data from multiple sources and produce reports that are disseminated throughout the organization.
 B. I use the functions of a spreadsheet to develop reports based upon a business need or requirement.
 C. I review information contained within a spreadsheet or database to verify its accuracy or conformance with agency/organizational standards.
 D. I enter information into spreadsheets or databases that is used to create recurring data reports for management.
 E. None of the above.
16. Select the work products you have authored.
 A. Executive Briefings
 B. Correspondence or memoranda
 C. Project status reports
 D. Standard Operating Procedures
 E. Training manuals
 F. Policy guidance
 G. Budget proposals
 H. Performance measures
 I. None of the above
17. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers?
 A. I have not had education and/or training in developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents.
 B. I have had education and/or training in developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers.
 C. I have developed and formatted written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers under close supervision to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have independently developed and formatted written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers.
 E. I have supervised others in, or been regularly consulted as an expert in, developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers.
18. Choose the option that best describes your experience producing succinct and clear written information for program members, senior officials, and organizational leadership.
 A. I have applied numerous techniques to provide succinct and clear information regarding issues related to national security.
 B. I have directed teams or groups to provide succinct and clear information to Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 C. I have performed nuanced research to develop way to proffer information to Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 D. I have spearheaded mission specific teams in identifying definitive information to be presented to Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 E. I do not meet any of the options provided.
19. If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "pass," "satisfactory," or better?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. I am a Federal employee but have not received a performance rating.
 D. Not applicable. I am not a Federal employee.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
20. Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected