Position Title
Civil Engineer
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
R4-25-12765422-AA-RCG Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 16, 2025 to Monday, July 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Recent College Graduate

Are you a recent graduate who has completed a qualifying Associate's, Bachelors, Masters, Doctorate, professional, vocational or technical degree or certificate program within the previous two years? 

OR

Are you a veteran who was unable to apply within two years of receiving your qualifying degree or certificate (associates, bachelors, masters, professional, doctoral, or vocational/technical degree or certificate) due to military service obligation AND are you within six years from the date the degree or certificate was completed?

For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your transcripts showing the degree or certificate is conferred. If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
If your degree or certificate has not been conferred, you must provide a letter from the school documenting current standing, degree being obtained and expected graduation date, with your application package.
A firm job offer will not be presented until receipt of official transcripts showing degree conferred.
Failure to provide the required documentation will result in an ineligible rating and you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

Do you wish to be considered as a Recent College Graduate?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
7
9
Assessment 1
Basic Education Requirement
For each question, choose the response that best describes your experience and training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provided in your resume or application and information provided by your references.
1. Basic Education Qualification GS 0810

 A. I have a bachelor?s or higher degree in Engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor?s degree in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by ABET; or (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. B. I have a combination of education and experience ? college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: (1) Professional registration or licensure ? Current registration as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. Absent other means of qualifying under this standard, those applicants who achieved such registration by eligible only for positions that are within or closely related to the specialty field of their registration. For example, an applicant who attains registration through a State Board?s eminence provision as a manufacturing engineer typically would be rated eligible only for manufacturing engineering position. (2) Written test ? Evidence of having successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam and Puerto Rico. (3) Specified academic courses ? Successful completion of at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and that included the course specified in the basic requirements under paragraph A. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program as described in paragraph A. (4) Related curriculum ? Successful completion of a curriculum leading to a bachelor?s degree in an appropriate scientific field, e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, may be accepted in lieu of a bachelor?s degree in engineering, provided the applicant has had at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions. (The above examples of related curricula are not all-inclusive.)
 B. I do not possess the education or experience stated above.
Experience for GS-07
2. Experience for GS-0810-07

 A. I have Specialized experience is defined as one or more of the following: assisting with the completion of engineering surveys for civil engineering projects; completing reviews for adequacy and soundness of plans and specifications; assisting with the inspections of contract construction for roads or bridges, or buildings or other civil engineering projects to ensure compliance with plans or specification or other contract terms; assisting with the inspection of the condition of infrastructure assets to determine maintenance and repair needs; and/or assisting with engineering project tasks.
 B. I have Superior Academic Achievement (S.A.A.) S.A.A. is based on (1) Class Standing, (2) Grade-Point Average, or (3) Honor Society Membership. (1) Class Standing: Upper one-third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision based on completed courses. (2) Grade-Point Average: A grade point average of (a) 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 (B or better) as recorded on the official transcript or as computed based on four years of education, or computed based on courses completed during the final two years of the curriculum; -or- (b) 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 0 (B+ or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final two years of the curriculum. (3) Election to Membership in a National Scholastic Honor Society: Applicants may be considered eligible based on membership in one of the national scholastic honor societies. Freshman scholastic honor societies cannot be used to meet the requirements of this position.
 C. I have completed one full year of graduate level education (coursework directly related to Engineering).
 D. I have completed a 5-year program of study of at least 160 semester hours leading to a bachelor's degree in engineering.
 E. I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience. Professional engineering experience is defined as nonroutine engineering work that required and was characterized by (1) professional knowledge of engineering; (2) professional ability to apply such knowledge to engineering problems; and (3) positive and continuing development of professional knowledge and ability.
 F. I do not possess the education or experience stated above.
Experience for GS-09
3. Experience for GS-09

 A. I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level defined as one or more of the following: 1) Assisting in the design and development of construction drawings and specifications for civil engineering projects. 2) Assisting with construction inspection oversight 3) Performing assigned engineering project tasks under the supervision of a senior engineer.
 B. I have 2 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a master's degree or master's or equivalent graduate degree in and engineering program of study.
 C. I have completed a 5-year program of study of at least 160 semester hours leading to a bachelor's degree in engineering and 1 year of appropriate professional experience.
 D. I have a combination of superior academic achievement and 1 year of appropriate professional experience.
 E. I have a combination of specialized experience and education (only graduate education in excess of 18 semester hours may be used to qualify applicants for this grade level). Professional engineering experience is defined as nonroutine engineering work that required and was characterized by (1) professional knowledge of engineering; (2) professional ability to apply such knowledge to engineering problems; and (3) positive and continuing development of professional knowledge and ability.
 F. I do not meet the requirement(s) as stated above.
4. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.

 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected