Position Title
Power Plant Shift Operator
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERH250344190380DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 27, 2025 to Friday, September 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.
1. Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. The duties of this position meet the criteria for compliance with Federal and Department of the Army Drug Free Workplace Programs. Detection of the presence of drugs is warranted. This position is subject to a pre-employment screening, and random testing thereafter, to include testing based on reasonable suspicion and testing due to direct involvement with an on-duty accident. Are you willing to refrain from the use of illegal drugs and submit to a pre-employment drug screening and random testing thereafter to obtain and maintain employment in this position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This position has a requirement to lift up to 45 lbs. in the regular performance of duties. Are you willing and able to meet the lifting requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. This position requires shift work to provide coverage on evenings, weekends, holidays, or special situations. Employee shifts are rotated on a regularly scheduled basis. Are you willing and able to work on a rotating shift basis to meet work requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Power Plant Shift Operator position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
1. From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Power Plant Operator duties without more than normal supervision.
 A. I am able to perform the most difficult and complex Power Plant Shift Operator tasks including operation of hydroelectric power plant equipment utilizing initiative, independence, confidence and without a requirement for supervisory check and guidance; explaining how to and handle any possible reactions of operation of powerhouse equipment to a transmission line loss; and utilizing software such as SCADA (supervisory control and data acquisition), and/or DACS (data acquisition and controls systems). I am able to perform these tasks as an expert with a high degree of independence. My resume reflects current or past experience performing these tasks.
 B. I am able to perform the full range of Power Plant Shift Operator tasks including independently performing demanding or complex tasks of applying and fitting standard operating techniques to complex situations in a hydroelectric power plant of about 100-megawatt power generating capacity, and analyzing operating problems to determine best and/or alternate source of station service power and place it into service. I am able to perform these tasks under general supervision subject to occasional inspection. My resume reflects current or past experience performing these tasks.
 C. I am able to perform common Power Plant Shift Operator tasks in a power producing plant of about 40 megawatt generation capacity. I have experience taking sole command of normal and abnormal power plant operation problems to execute a desirable solution such as a recovery from a power blackout in the plant. My resume reflects current or past experience performing these tasks.
 D. I am able to perform minor tasks of a control room or power plant shift operator in a power producing plant. I frequently receive supervisory guidance and my work is inspected where power plant operation decisions are involved. I am able to handle routine control room or power plant shift operation work, but I lack the ability to take command of situations. My resume reflects current or past experience performing these tasks.
 E. My ability is not reflected in the above statements, but I am willing to learn.
2. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected