Position Title
Med Instrument Tech (GI)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-12814328-26-GC Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 10, 2025 to Friday, October 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your qualifications for this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. If your resume does not support your questionnaire answers, we will not allow credit for your response(s).


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess at least one year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level (GS-3) which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the positions to be filled? Experience at this grade level is typically defined as: Experience which provided knowledge of proper performance of endoscopic equipment and procedures; Experience setting up endoscopy equipment; Aiding the Physician with standard and routine procedures such as colonoscopy and esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD); and reprocess and maintain specialty critical reusable medical equipment (RME).
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you able to demonstrate the following knowledge, skills and abilities?
(a) Knowledge of endoscopic equipment and use in basic and complex endoscopic procedures.
(b) Knowledge of anatomy and physiology related to the GI system, with ability to recognize and report obvious abnormalities during procedures.
(c) Ability to assist physician with specialized, complex procedures.
(d) Knowledge of universal precautions and disinfection techniques and ability to follow SOP's to clean reusable medical equipment (RME).
(e) Ability to collaborate, communicate, and demonstrate customer service skills and interpersonal skills with all healthcare professionals to ensure quality and continuity of care.
(f) Ability to use basic computer systems and programs to record patient and endoscopic data, adhering to patient privacy and information security policies.
(g) Ability to deliver patient care, including vital sign measurements and medication administration.

 Yes
 No


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes
 No


Final Instructions - Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed. Human Resources can't assume any experience or qualifications that are not reflected and supporting by your application package. -Job title -Duties (be as detailed as possible, HR can't assume duties performed that are not listed) -Month & year start/end dates (i.e., June 2007 to April 2008) -Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) -Grade level for each position, if Federal employment (i.e., GS-5)


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Do you possess at least one year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level (GS-4) which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the positions to be filled? Experience at this grade level is typically defined as: Experience which provided knowledge of proper performance of endoscopic equipment and procedures; Experience setting up endoscopy equipment; Aiding the Physician with standard and routine procedures such as colonoscopy and esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD); and reprocess and maintain specialty critical reusable medical equipment (RME).
 Yes
 No


5.
Do you possess at least one year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level (GS-5) which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the positions to be filled? Experience at this grade level is typically defined as: Experience which provided knowledge of proper performance of endoscopic equipment and procedures; Experience setting up endoscopy equipment; Aiding the Physician with standard and routine procedures such as colonoscopy and esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD); and reprocess and maintain specialty critical reusable medical equipment (RME).
 Yes
 No


6.
Do you possess at least one year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level (GS-6) which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the positions to be filled? Experience at this grade level is typically defined as: Experience which provided knowledge of proper performance of endoscopic equipment and procedures; Experience setting up endoscopy equipment; Aiding the Physician with standard and routine procedures such as colonoscopy and esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD); and reprocess and maintain specialty critical reusable medical equipment (RME).
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙