Position Title
Recreation Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-12753985-25-VM Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, June 23, 2025 to Monday, July 7, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Recreation Therapist position with the Federal government. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. This section addresses the basic qualifications for this vacancy announcement. Select "Yes" or "No" to the following question(s).
ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY: Applicants must be proficient in written and spoken English, as required by 38 U.S.C. ? 7403(f).
1. Are you proficient in spoken and written English?

 A. Yes. I am proficient in spoken and written English.
 B. No. I am not proficient in spoken and written English. I understand that I am not eligible for this position.
BASIC REQUIREMENTS: EDUCATION/REQUIREMENTS FOR GS-7 GRADE LEVEL: Respond to questions for education, experience, and certification requirements for the position of Recreation Therapist.
2. Do you have a bachelor's degree or higher, from an accredited college or university, with a major in therapeutic recreation or recreation/leisure, with an option and/or emphasis in therapeutic recreation. The degree must be approved by the National Council for Therapeutic Recreation Certification (NCTRC);
OR
A bachelor's degree or higher in any field from an accredited college or university and must be a Certified Therapeutic Recreation Specialist (CTRS). The degree must be approved by the NCTRC.

 A. Yes. I have a bachelor's degree or higher, from an accredited college or university, with a major in therapeutic recreation or recreation/leisure, with an option and/or emphasis in therapeutic recreation. I have submitted a copy of my transcripts to support my answer.
 B. Yes. I have a bachelor's degree or higher in any field from an accredited college or university, and I am a Certified Therapeutic Recreation Specialist (CTRS). I have submitted a copy of my transcripts to support my answer.
 C. No. I understand that I am not eligible for this position.
3. BASIC REQUIREMENTS: CERTIFICATION: Do you have certification in recreation therapy as a CTRS by the NCTRC?

 A. Yes I do have certification in recreation therapy as a CTRS by the NCTRC.
 B. No. I do not have certification in recreation therapy as a CTRS by the NCTRC and do not have a degree approved by the National Council for Therapeutic Recreation Certification
4. EXPERIENCE/EDUCATION FOR GS-9 GRADE LEVEL: Do you possess at least one year of creditable experience at the next lower grade level, or a master's degree in recreation therapy and have documented in your resume demonstrating all of the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs)? A master's degree in recreation therapy may be substituted for the required one year of professional recreation therapist experience:

(1) Knowledge of assessment tools and treatment for the diagnosis or disability of the patient.
(2) Knowledge to interpret and apply all health and safety regulations, to minimize and mitigate risks in the provisions of patient care, and environmental maintenance.
(3) Ability to effectively communicate and educate patients, families, caregivers, and other health care professionals to facilitate the treatment process.
(4) Knowledge to apply evidence-based and best practice therapeutic techniques and interventions.

 A. Yes. I possess at least one year of creditable experience at the next lower grade level, GS-7, and I have documented in my resume demonstrating the KSAs mentioned above.
 B. Yes. I graduated with a master's degree in recreation therapy. I have submitted transcripts to support my answer, and I have documented in my resume demonstrating the KSAs mentioned above.
 C. No. I do not possess the required experience or education and I have not documented in my resume demonstrating the KSAs mentioned above. I understand that I am not eligible for this position at the GS-9 grade level.
5. EXPERIENCE FOR GS-11: In applying for the Recreation Therapist position, do you possess at least one year of creditable experience at the next lower grade level, GS-09. AND have you documented in your resume demonstrating the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):

(1) Ability to adapt assessment tools and treatment interventions to address the complexity of the diagnosis or disabilities and demonstrate the clinical reasoning necessary to identify the need for further in-depth specific assessment of function and utilization of unconventional methods and techniques.
(2) Knowledge to independently interpret provider referrals and consults; and apply all health and safety regulations to minimize and mitigate risks in the provision of patient care and the environment of care.
(3) Skill in effectively communicating and educating, in a clear and concise manner, with patients, families, caregivers, and other health care professionals to facilitate the interdisciplinary treatment process.
(4) Skill in independently utilizing appropriate screening and evaluation techniques required to appropriately provide direct patient care in areas such as, but not limited to recommendations for recreation therapy assistive devices, including fit and function.
(5) Skill in independently applying evidence-based and best practice therapeutic techniques and interventions.
(6) Knowledge of the principles and techniques in recreation therapy assessment and the treatment of recreation, leisure, and biopsychosocial functional deficits.

 A. Yes. I possess one year of creditable experience at the next lower grade level, GS-09 and I have documented in my resume demonstrating the KSAs mentioned above.
 B. No. I do not possess one year of creditable experience at the next lower grade level, GS-09 and I have not documented in my resume demonstrating the KSAs mentioned above. I understand that I am not eligible for this position at the GS-11 grade level.
FEDERAL EMPLOYEE: SF-50 Reminder: Most recent SF-50 if you are a current or former Federal employee. An SF-50 showing your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade. Award 50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted for the purpose of verifying time-in-grade.
TRANSCRIPTS REMINDER: If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
CERTIFICATION OF UNDERSTANDING: Select the appropriate answer to the statement below. Failure to provide an answer will result in your not being considered for this position.
6. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in not being considered for this position.

 A. Yes, I understand the information provided above and certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
 B. No, I do not certify this information and I do not wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected