Position Title
SHEET METAL MECHANIC (AIRCRAFT)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12825157-AF-26-009 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, October 28, 2025 to Saturday, September 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
8
10


Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1, 2 and 3 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA AIR NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-1172.


2.
Are you an enlisted member in the grades of E3 - E6?
 Yes. I am an enlisted member in the grades of E3 - E6.
 No. I am not an enlisted member in the grades of E3 - E6.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Air National Guard.


3.
APPLICANTS MUST BE ABLE TO OBTAIN AN MINIMUM OF A SECRET CLEARANCE TO BE CONSIDERED ELIGIBLE. Do you currently possess a Secret or higher security clearance, OR ABLE TO OBTAIN a Secret Clearance?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess experience or training that has provided the candidate with the ability to plan, manufacture, and install cylindrical, square, or rectangular-shaped objects that have easily constructed fastenings such as single and double-hem edges and single, double or grooved seams?
 Yes
 No


2.
WG-08: Do you possess 12 months of experience or training planning, manufacturing, and installing cylindrical, square, or rectangular-shaped objects that have easily constructed fastening; experience cutting and forming by using basic hand and powered tools such as hammers, chisels, hand snips, band and circle saws, squaring shears, seamers, bar folders, breaks, and stakes; experience assembling parts by seaming, bolting, screwing, riveting, tacking, spot-welding, or soldering; experience demonstrating a basic understanding of using measuring instrument?
 Yes
 No


3.
WG-10: Do you possess 18 months of experience or training in planning, layout, and construction skills to manufacture items and systems with dovetailed seams, set-in-bottom seams, burred-bottom seams, or wired or lock seams; experience using more complicated shop tools and equipment; experience in using metals including stainless steel, copper sheet, magnesium, honeycomb material and alloys; experience demonstrating the use of more complicated mathematical calculations and complicated measuring instruments?
 Yes
 No


4.
This position requires identifying and treating various types of metal corrosion on aircraft. Describe a time you encountered significant corrosion damage during an aircraft inspection. What methods did you use to identify the type of corrosion, and what specific procedures did you follow to remove it and prevent further corrosion, referencing applicable technical publications or standards?


5.
The position involves preparing layouts, dies, jigs, and templates from blueprints and technical orders. Describe a complex fabrication project you undertook where you had to create a custom part or repair a damaged component. What steps did you take to interpret the blueprints, select appropriate materials considering metal strength characteristics (annealing, tempering, normalizing), and ensure the final product met specifications?


6.
This role requires fabricating and fitting patches to damaged aircraft skin, and repairing cracks to maintain original strength. Describe a challenging sheet metal repair you performed on an aircraft structure. What techniques did you use to determine the necessary repair detail, and how did you ensure the repair restored the structural integrity of the aircraft?


7.
The position requires proficiency in operating a variety of metalworking equipment, including power shears, brakes, and dimpling machines. Describe your experience with using these tools to perform precision sheet metal work. Give a specific example of a time when your skillful operation of this equipment was critical to completing a repair or fabrication task effectively and efficiently.


8.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.

 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙