Position Title
Program Analyst
Agency
Office of the Secretary of Defense
Announcement Number
OUSDAS-25-12764738-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 17, 2025 to Monday, July 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a service connected, compensable Veteran with a VA rating of 30% or more?  You are eligible for this appointing authority if you:
are retired from active military service with a disability rating of 30% or more; OR
 have an official statement, dated 1991 or later, certifying as having a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more.
Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, as follows:
DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of discharge and type of discharge (i.e., member 4 copy of the DD Form 214).  (Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.); AND
A copy of a letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs, dated 1991 or later, certifying an OVERALL Service Connected Disability of 30% or more; OR
DD Form 214, which reflects the character of service of "Retirement-Disability"; OR
Certification document* which reflects your OVERALL service connected disability of 30% or more.
The Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference is optional at the time of application.
*The "certification" is any written document from the armed forces that certifies the service member is expected to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the date the certification is submitted for consideration in the hiring process AND has a compensable service-connected disability. The certification MUST show the characterization of your discharge (Honorable, General, etc.) and OVERALL compensable service-connected disability percentage. Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

You may request copies of your military records online: https://www.archives.gov/veterans/military-service-records
You can obtain a copy of your DD-214 from the National Archives: 
You can obtain a copy of Standard Form (SF) 15:
Additional links:  https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/veterans/
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.
Are you a current or former political Schedule A, Schedule C, Non-career SES or Presidential Appointee employee? Submit a copy of your applicable SF-50, along with a statement that provides the following information regarding your most recent political appointment:
 
Position title;
Type of appointment (Schedule A, Schedule C, Non-career SES, or Presidential Appointee);
Agency; and,
Beginning and ending dates of appointment.
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current, permanent DoD Civilian employee?  You are eligible for this hiring category and the hiring category of Current Permanent Federal Civilian if you currently work on a permanent competitive service civilian appointment in any of the following Department of Defense (DoD) agencies:
U.S. Navy
U.S. Army
U.S. Marine Corps
Department of the Air Force
Other Department of Defense Agency (e.g., DLA, DFAS, DISA, DODDS, Defense Commissary, etc.)
Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

Notes:
*Current Permanent Federal Civilians: You can check your competitive service status by viewing your latest Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50,
Block 34, Position Occupied. If eligible, you will see 1-Competitive Service in this block.
*If you are currently working on a temporary or term appointment, or you are serving on active duty in the U.S. military service in any of the above agencies, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.
*If you are currently working for a private sector company performing work related to a contract with a federal agency, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.
*We will be reviewing your last or most recent SF-50 to determine 'Time-in-grade requirements' are met by the closing date of this announcement and clearly documented. 


NOTE:  If you are serviced by WHS you are not required to submit an SF-50.

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current WHS Defense Civilian Intelligence Personnel System (DCIPS) employee?  You are eligible for this eligibility if you are a:
current Department of Defense, Washington Headquarters Service serviced DCIPS employee; OR,
former permanent federal employee who has reappointment eligibility.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "2."  If you are serviced by WHS you are not required to submit an SF-50.

NOTE: Length of service requirement for DCIPS Interchange Agreement: DCIPS employees must have served continuously for at least 1-year in DCIPS positions in DoD Components of the Agreement before they may be appointed to positions in the competitive civil service under the authority of the DCIPS agreement. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. You are eligible for this hiring eligibility if you are the spouse of an active duty U.S. Armed Forces service member and you meet the following conditions:

• You and the sponsor were married prior to the relocation (before the Permanent Change of Station (PCS)); AND,
• You have arrived at the overseas duty station identified on the PCS orders; AND,
• You are among the best qualified; AND,
• Position you are applying to, is within the same commuting area as sponsor's permanent duty station.
 
Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of the service member's permanent change of station orders, including a statement authorizing the spouse to accompany the member to the permanent duty station (if the spouse is not listed on the orders, then a command sponsorship letter must be submitted), the specific location to which the member is assigned, reassigned, or transferred to permanent change of station orders, and the effective date of the permanent change of station; AND verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage).

• If you are currently employed by the federal government in an excepted service Schedule A family member position in an overseas location, you also need to include a copy of your most recent SF-50 reflecting in block 24 either a "0" or "3" AND block 34 should reflect a "2."
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy or has greater promotion potential than the grade level of the vacancy
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50), and most recent performance appraisal showing a rating of record that is at least fully successful or equivalent.  For more information, review https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/federal-employees/
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?
• Current or former Land Management Agency employee (i.e. the Forest Service of the Department of Agriculture; the Bureau of Land Management of the Department of the Interior; the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior; the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior; the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior; or the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior); and
• Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain land management agencies.

Current land management agency appointees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and
must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former land management agency employees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years,
must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s),
must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and
must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3" AND block 34 must be a"1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your Land Management eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. You are eligible for this hiring category if you:
Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty,
Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR
Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.
Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13832 which may include:
verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage); and,
Documentation verifying active duty status; or
verification of the member's 100 percent disability; or
verification of the member's death while on active duty.
Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form. Obtain a copy of SF-15 at http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf 

**For appointments made on or after August 13, 2023, the following additional criteria must be met for eligibility for appointment: (A) The member of the armed forces must have received orders authorizing a permanent change of station.  (B) The spouse must have married the member of the armed forces on, or prior to, the date of such orders authorizing the permanent change of station. (C) The spouse must have relocated or is relocating with the member of the armed forces to the new duty station specified in the documentation ordering the permanent change of station.

 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) & National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement (PPP Disability)

I am a Military Reserve or National Guard Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.
I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.
I understand that the positions for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE 1: If you indicate 'yes' to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability.

NOTE 2: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer. 


 A. Yes
 B. No
11. You are eligible for this hiring category if you are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty who has permanent change of station (PCS) orders (not for training).
Limited to the geographic area as specified in the PCS orders. This includes the surrounding area which people reasonably can be expected to travel daily to and from work.
Must relocate with the service member to be eligible.
Must be currently located in the commuting area to be authorized preference.
Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for Military Spouse Preference which includes:

Documents required to be submitted with Application for Military Spouse Preference Eligible:
(NOTE: DoD agencies may require additional documentation. Please refer to the announcement to ensure that all required documentation is submitted with your application. It is highly recommended that you save all these documents to your USAJOBS account in order to facilitate applying to multiple positions.)

Military Spouses with prior Federal work experience:
Narrative resume
PCS orders
Marriage certificate or license
SF-50s, if applicable (e.g., LWOP, highest grade held, overseas appointments, etc.)
Documentation of performance rating of record (dated within the last 12 months), if applicable
Signed self-certification checklist
Veteran's preference documentation (e.g., DD-214, VA letter, Statement of Service), if applicable
Transcripts, if applicable
Military Spouses without prior Federal work experience:
Narrative resume
PCS orders
Marriage certificate or license
Signed self-certification checklist
Veterans' preference documentation (e.g. DD 214, VA letter, Statement of Service), if applicable
Transcripts, if applicable
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible:

I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade
dated within the last 2 years. I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions at my retained grade, within my local commuting area.

NOTE 1: If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the "Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist" and copies of the appropriate
documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade.

NOTE 2: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted or declined a job offer for permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

 A. Yes
 B. No
13. PPP DoD Mil Reserve (MR) & Nat"l Guard (NG) Pref Eligible Tech Rec Dis Retirement (PPP Disability)

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5 U.S.C. This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation.

NOTE 1: If you indicate 'yes' to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG {through no fault of your own)  and that you have completed a least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.

NOTE 2: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.
 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Were you formerly employed as a federal civilian on a permanent competitive appointment but are not currently a permanent competitive federal employee? 

If eligible, submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) AND
• Your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).

NOTE:  If you are serviced by WHS you are not required to submit an SF-50.

 A. Yes
 B. No
15. Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for Schedule A Disability appointments?

If eligible, provide proof of disability with appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist, on official letterhead, stating your condition and restrictions.

For more information, review https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/individuals-with-disabilities/
 A. Yes
 B. No
16. Are you a veteran whose discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:
• served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
• a preference eligible veteran

If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. If currently on active duty and within 120 days of separation, in lieu of a DD-214, submit certification from your military personnel office verifying retirement/separation date and type/character of discharge.

Note: Current or former Federal employees (i.e., an individual who within the previous 52 weeks held a GS position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch) applying under VEOA eligibility will be subject to time-in-grade restrictions IAW 5 CFR 300.604. If applying to a GS position in the competitive service, you are required to provide a SF-50 or SF-50s that show that you have held the next lower grade level of the position to which you are applying for at least one year OR held the same or higher grade level. 

For more information, review https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/veterans/
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for applying to the Program Analyst, NH-0343-04 position with the Office of the Secretary of Defense for Acquisition & Sustainment (OUSD (A&S)).
1. Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Program Analyst at the NH-0343-04 (GS-14) grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector.
 A. I have one year of experience in the same or similar work equivalent to at least the next lower grade level NH-03 (GS-13 equivalent) requiring application of the knowledge, skills, and abilities of the position being filled.
 B. My experience is not reflected in the above statement.
This position has Conditions of Employment that must be obtained prior to your start date and maintained for the duration of this employment.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. This position may require you to pass screening for illegal drug use prior to appointment and subsequent periodic drug screening thereafter. Are you willing to meet the drug testing requirements?

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This position may require you to obtain and maintain a Top Secret/ Critical Sensitive security clearance. Are you willing to meet the security clearance requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. This position may require travel away from your normal duty station on military or commercial aircraft. Are you willing to meet the travel requirements?

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Please select the response below that best describes your experience in gathering, analyzing, planning, and organizing work and presenting data to supporting analyses on recommended courses of action through the use of various quantitative analysis and statistical techniques.

 A. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 B. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 D. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 E. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee.
6. Please select the response below that best describes your experience building coalitions across diverse stakeholder groups to gain support and influence over high visibility projects, plans, programs, and policies.

 A. I have participated on a team that has built coalitions across diverse stakeholder groups to gain support and influence over high visibility projects, plans, programs, and policies.
 B. I have built coalitions across diverse stakeholder groups to gain support and influence over high visibility projects, plans, programs, and policies.
 C. Building coalitions across diverse stakeholder groups to gain support and influence over high visibility projects, plans, programs, and policies has been a regular part of my job. I perform this duty independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 D. Building coalitions across diverse stakeholder groups to gain support and influence over high visibility projects, plans, programs, and policies has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 E. I have not had experience building coalitions across diverse stakeholder groups to gain support and influence over high visibility projects, plans, programs, and policies.
7. Please select the response that best describes your experience developing group dynamics and management practices and techniques to plan, direct and negotiate effectively with representatives from diverse organizations to reach accepted positions.

 A. Developing group dynamics and management practices and techniques to plan, direct and negotiate effectively with representatives from diverse organizations to reach accepted positions has been a regular part of my job. I perform this duty independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee.
 B. Developing group dynamics and management practices and techniques to plan, direct and negotiate effectively with representatives from diverse organizations to reach accepted positions has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 C. Developing group dynamics and management practices and techniques to plan, direct and negotiate effectively with representatives from diverse organizations to reach accepted positions under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 D. I have participated on a team developing group dynamics and management practices and techniques to plan, direct and negotiate effectively with representatives from diverse organizations to reach accepted positions.
 E. I have not had experience or training in developing group dynamics and management practices and techniques to plan, direct and negotiate effectively with representatives from diverse organizations to reach accepted positions.
8. I have an in-depth understanding of Critical and Strategic Materials.

 A. False
 B. True
9. I have documented experience developing management and/or program evaluation plans, procedures, and methodology.

 A. False
 B. True
10. Please select the response that best describes your experience developing and conducting briefings for senior DoD civilian and uniformed personnel on projects, plans, programs, and policies.

 A. I have not had experience, education, or training developing and conducting briefings for senior DoD civilian and uniformed personnel on projects, plans, programs, and policies.
 B. I have participated on a team that developed briefings for senior DoD civilian and uniformed personnel on projects, plans, programs, and policies.
 C. Developing and conducting briefings for senior DoD civilian and uniformed personnel on projects, plans, programs, and policies. I perform this duty often independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee.
 D. Developing and conducting briefings for senior DoD civilian and uniformed personnel on projects, plans, programs, and policies as a regular part of a job. I have performed this task routinely without supervision, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 E. I have developed and conducted briefings for senior DoD civilian and uniformed personnel on projects, plans, programs, and policies.
11. From the following list of communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied. (Select all that apply)

 A. Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective.
 B. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments.
 C. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff.
 D. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations.
 E. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals.
 F. None of the above
12. Of the following office automation tools select all you routinely utilize to design and generate reports, briefing materials, and/or comparable documents. (Select all that apply)

 A. MS Word
 B. Power Point
 C. Excel
 D. Outlook
 E. Adobe Acrobat
 F. None of the above
13. Please select the response that best describes your experience articulating, negotiating, persuading and implementing policies, procedures and processes required by changes in the political, legislative, economic or operating environments.

 A. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 B. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 C. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 D. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 E. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
14. Select the statement that best represents your experience planning and organizing multi-national/international meetings and conferences.

 A. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 B. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 D. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 E. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
15. Select the statement that best describes your experience analyzing and evaluating (on a quantitative or qualitative basis) the effectiveness of program operations in meeting established goals and objectives.

 A. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 B. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 C. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 D. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 E. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
16. Of the following statements please select all you have documented experience performing on a job. (Select all that apply)

 A. I have anticipated problems, developed sound solutions and action plans to ensure program/mission accomplishment.
 B. I routinely identified and optimized resources to accomplish multiple projects/programs goals.
 C. I have documented experience developing, integrating, and implementing solutions to diverse, highly complex problems across multiple areas and disciplines.
 D. I routinely developed plans and techniques to fit new situations to improve overall program and policies.
 E. I have introduced and/or implemented innovative approaches to resolve unusual/difficult issues significantly impacting important policies or programs.
 F. I have stratified resources against approved programs, to plan, present, and execute budgets, to analyze budget impacts on programs, and to forecast long-term funding requirements.
 G. I have executed projects and/or studies within established financial and time constraints.
 H. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
17. Your ratings in this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents you submitted. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning; 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy; and 3) have verified that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability as reflected in your resume. Do you certify the accuracy of your responses?

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected