Position Title
Recreation Therapist
Agency
Armed Forces Retirement Home
Announcement Number
25-AFRH-12785383 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 22, 2025 to Friday, September 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency covered by an OPM Interchange agreement that conveys noncompetitive eligibility?

For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=InterchangeAgreementsWithOtherMeritSystems

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following merit promotion categories?
Current Federal civilian employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current Excepted service employee covered by an Interchange Agreement
Former Federal employee with Reinstatement eligibility
Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA)
Current Federal employee serving on a VRA appointment
Land Management Employee eligible under Public Law 114-47
Other competitive category not listed above (you must submit proof of eligibility)
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you eligible to be appointed under the Military Spouse Noncompetitive Appointing Authority based on any of the following categories?
You are the spouse of an active duty member of the Armed Forces.
You are the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs.
You are the widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status, and you have not re-married.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources. (https://www.usajobs.gov/Veterans)

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a former federal employee that has been separated for at least one full year and is eligible to be non-competitively reinstated to a higher grade or full-performance level than which you left federal employment?
(Note: you MUST provide:  1) a copy of your separation SF-50 (the "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2"); AND 2) the last performance appraisal you received from your federal employment which shows at least a fully successful rating.)

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Do you currently hold (or have you previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you eligible under any other miscellaneous appointing authority not listed thus far, such as (but not all inclusive to):
Postal Career Service Employee;
Postal Rate Commission Employee;
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; 
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee; or 
Foreign overseas employee or eligible family member of former overseas employee
 For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=MiscellaneousAuthoritiesNotRegulated .  To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

For more information on Foreign overseas employment please review the following: https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#NontemporaryForeignService or https://www.state.gov/global-community-liaison-office/family-member-employment/family-member-employment-in-the-d-c-area/non-competitive-eligibility-nce/#NCE5
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you eligible for consideration as a Peace Corps, VISTA, or Action volunteer?  If you select this option, you are required to provide acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility by submitting proof of employment from the appropriate agency with your completed application.
National Service (Peace Corps and VISTA)

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions and you:

• recently separated (within the past 3 years)
• are a disabled veteran
• served on active duty during a war, campaign or expedition OR
• received an Armed Forces Service Medal

If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. If claiming disability preference, provide the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal that includes the final rating. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so. If you do not provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration.

Type "yes" in the text box below if you are providing a performance appraisal meeting the above requirements with your application. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application, please provide a reason in the text box below.
3. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
Assessment 1
1. Applicants must meet one of the following educational requirements:

Bachelors or graduate/higher level degree in therapeutic recreation, art therapy, drama therapy, dance therapy, or music therapy;

OR

Bachelors or graduate/higher level degree in a related field involving therapeutic emphasis or concentration that included at least 36 semester hours in therapeutic courses as described below:

18 semester hours of therapeutic recreation courses; and
18 semester hours that include a combination of abnormal psychology, physiology, human anatomy and development, disabilities and general recreation
 A. I have a bachelors or graduate/higher level degree in therapeutic recreation, art therapy, drama therapy, dance therapy, or music therapy.
 B. I have a bachelors or graduate/higher level degree in a related field involving therapeutic emphasis or concentration that included at least 36 semester hours in therapeutic courses.
 C. None of the above
Specialized experience includes one year of specialized experience at the GS-09 level or equivalent that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. Specialized experience includes:

- Experience in evaluating the history, interest, aptitude, and skills of patients, and using such findings to develop and implement therapy activities for individual patients; AND
- Developing therapeutic recreation treatment plans for patients suffering from physical, emotional, and/or social dysfunctions relating to leisure; AND
- Revising treatment plans based upon changes in the intervention, diagnosis, and patient responses; planning and conducting adaptive recreational activities.

OR

You may qualify on education alone with 3 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or equivalent doctoral degree.

OR

Combinations of successfully completed graduate level education and specialized experience may be used to meet total experience requirements. Only graduate level education in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be combined with experience.

NOTE: Experience in activities or programs that did not require application of a knowledge of the concepts, principles, and practices of recreation therapy or one of the creative arts therapy specializations covered by this standard, and that did not involve the use of therapeutic approaches to maintain the physical and/or mental health or to achieve the physical and/or mental rehabilitation of persons, (e.g., Outdoor Recreation Specialist, Commercial Recreation Leader, Vocational Counselor, or other diversionary-type recreation specialist positions) is not qualifying for this series.
2. Select the answer that best describes your experience as it directly relates to the specialized experience statement. Carefully review your application and ensure that your response is supported by your resume.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level as described above.
 B. I have three years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a PhD. in a related field. Attach copy of transcript or list of college courses designating semester or quarter hours earned to ensure proper credit. Education obtained in foreign colleges or universities will only be credited if that education is comparable to that of the U.S. (You must provide proof of comparability at the time of application).
 C. I have a PhD. in a related field. Attach copy of transcript or list of college courses designating semester or quarter hours earned to ensure proper credit. Education obtained in foreign colleges or universities will only be credited if that education is comparable to that of the U.S. (You must provide proof of comparability at the time of application)
 D. I have a combination of the education and specialized experience described that has equipped me with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform the work. Attach copy of transcript or list of college courses designating semester or quarter hours earned to ensure proper credit. Education obtained in foreign colleges or universities will only be credited if that education is comparable to that of the U.S. (You must provide proof of comparability at the time of application).
 E. I have none of the above.
If you are a Certified Therapeutic Recreation Specialist or Board Certified Music Therapist, please submit a copy of your certification along with your application package.
3. Which of the following statements best describe your experience developing, implementing and evaluating a recreation treatment program?
 A. I am/have been independently responsible for developing, implementing and evaluating recreation treatment plans.
 B. I have developed and implemented a recreation treatment plan with little involvement in the evaluation of the plans.
 C. I have implemented and carried out a recreation treatment plan but have not evaluated its effectiveness.
 D. None of the above.
4. Which of the listed categories of residents/ patients have you provided recreation therapy to? (Select all that apply)
 A. Physical Impairment.
 B. Psychiatric impairment.
 C. Long Term Care Residents.
 D. Assisted living residents.
 E. Neurological and Cognitive Impairments.
 F. None of the above.
5. Select all of the recreation therapy duties you have performed.
 A. Assembled Resident Histories.
 B. Interpret medical record information.
 C. Conduct mental and physical assessments of patient.
 D. Develop and implement a treatment plan.
 E. Develop therapeutic programs for various types of disabilities.
 F. Evaluate effectiveness of treatment plans.
 G. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
6. Have you collaborated with other health care staff to develop and implement a total health care treatment plan for patients?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. From the list below, please select all of the choices that describe your experience influencing and motivating patients .
 A. I have educated patients on the benefits of recreation/music therapy plans.
 B. I have encouraged patients to participate in recreation/music therapy activities.
 C. None of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected