Position Title
Medical Records Technician (Health Information Technician)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTD-12801510-25-EIW Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 17, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
4
5
6
7
2. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
3. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Medical Records Technician (Health Information Technician) position with the Department of Veterans Affairs. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of the position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.
The following question(s) pertain to the Basic Requirement qualifications for the Medical Records Technician (HIT) position.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. English Proficiency: Medical Records Technicians - HIT must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7403(f).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Grandfathering Provision. All persons employed in VHA as a MRT (HIT) on the effective date of this qualification standard (12/10/19) are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade held, including positive education and licensure/certification/ registration that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. Employees who do not meet all the basic requirements in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it, the following provisions apply:
(1) Such employees in an occupation that does not require a licensure/certification/ registration may be reassigned, promoted, or demoted within the occupation, but will not be promoted beyond the journey level or placed in supervisory or managerial positions.
(2) Employees who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended, or be reappointed on a temporary or permanent basis, until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard.
(3) Employees initially grandfathered into this occupation, who subsequently obtain additional education and/or licensure/certification/registration that meet all the basic requirements of this qualification standard, must maintain the required credentials as a condition of employment in the occupation.

Do you qualify under the grandfathering provision?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Medical Records Tech (Health Information Technician) - GS-0675: Grade 04:

Experience and Education: Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.
 A. Experience: One year of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, anatomy, physiology, and a general understanding of health records. Six months of the required one year of creditable experience must have provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) needed to perform MRT HIT work.
 B. Education: An associate degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education with a major field of study in health information technology/health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, medical coding, and introduction to health records). (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED)
 C. Experience/Education Combination: Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, privacy and release of information, the health record, and one year above high school with a minimum of six semester hours of health information technology/health information management. (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED)
 D. Experience/Education Combination: Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, privacy and release of information, the health record, and successful completion of a course for medical technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or hospital training obtained in a training program given by the U.S. Armed Forces or the U.S. Maritime Service, under close medical and professional supervision, may be substituted on a month-for-month basis for up to six months of experience, provided the training program included courses in anatomy, physiology, and health record techniques and procedures. (DOCUMENTATION REQUIRED)
 E. I do not possess any of the response options above.
3a. Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution/program from which you received your degree/training/certification:
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree: Major/Program/Certification:
Month and Year conferred:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. 4. Required
Medical Records Tech (Health Information Technician) - GS-0675: Grade 05 (Developmental Level 1)

In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met Medical Records Technician (HIT), GS-05:Experience. One year of experience equivalent to the next lower level, GS-04. Duties may include but are not limited to: analyzing health records for accuracy, completeness, timeliness, consistency, and compliance (e.g., scanned, uploaded, use of correct titles, linked to correct encounters, etc.), with HIM industry standards, policies, procedures, laws, regulations, and accrediting bodies; perform health record review activities to satisfy external accreditation requirements and medical center performance measures; monitor, verify, correct, and upload all transcription/medical speech recognition to maintain completeness and accuracy of health records. MRTs HIT receive close supervision from the supervisory MRT HIT or designee. OR
Education. A bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education with a major field of study in health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 24 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy & physiology, legal aspects of health care, and introduction to health records).

AND

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Ability to communicate effectively with internal and external customers.
Ability to utilize health information technology and various office software products used in health information management positions (e.g., Microsoft Excel, electronic health records, and delinquency tracking software).
Knowledge of health record documentation guidelines and industry standards.
Ability to manage priorities and coordinate work to complete duties within required timeframes.
Ability to apply knowledge of medical terminology and human anatomy to fully understand the content of a health record.

Do you meet the education/experience requirement and demonstrated knowledge, skills, and abilities for the GS-05 level?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Medical Records Tech (Health Information Technician) - GS-0675: Grade 06

In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met Medical Records Technician (HIT), GS-06:Experience. One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, GS-05. Duties may include but are not limited to: create and monitor reports to ensure that deficiencies are resolved and completed appropriately; monitor, verifying, correct, and/or upload all transcription/medical speech recognition to maintain completeness and accuracy of health records. notify clinical providers regarding incomplete health records, and assist clinical providers regarding completeness of their health record documentation. MRTs HIT receive guidance from the supervisory MRT HIT, or designee, for more complex health record reviews.

AND

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Ability to navigate efficiently through the health record to locate needed information.
Ability to analyze health record documentation to ensure compliance with guidelines and industry standards.
Skill in investigating potential health record errors and making corrections, when appropriate.
Skill in interpreting and applying health information guidelines and using judgment to complete assignments.
Ability to follow up on incomplete health record documentation.

Do you meet the experience requirement and ALL demonstrated knowledge, skills, and abilities for the GS-06 level?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. 6. Required
Medical Records Tech (Health Information Technician) - GS-0675: Grade 07 (Full Performance Level)

In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met Medical Records Technician (HIT), GS-07:Experience. One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, GS-06. Duties may include but are not limited to: analyzes, abstracts, maintains, extracts and compiles information from the health record, working under the review of the supervisor; correction of health records; conduct reviews of incomplete records for individuals clearing the facility; create and monitor reports to ensure that deficiencies are resolved and completed appropriately; monitor, verify, correct, and/or upload all transcription/medical speech recognition to maintain completeness and accuracy of health records; serve as the technical experts in health record content and documentation requirements.

AND

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Ability to judge whether health records contain sufficient information for regulatory requirements, are acceptable as legal documents, are adequate for continuity of patient care, and support education and research needs.
Ability to take appropriate actions if health record content is not adequate, accurate, timely, and/or reliable.
Ability to communicate both orally and in writing with individuals or groups, to facilitate compliance with established policies and regulations.
Skill in using appropriate software and computer applications to analyze and record documentation trends.
Ability to apply qualitative and/or quantitative methods for assessment and improvement of health records.
Ability to work independently and utilize problem-solving techniques in the accomplishment of work.

Do you meet the experience requirement and ALL demonstrated knowledge, skills, and abilities for the GS-07 level?
 A. Yes
 B. No
RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g., June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.
CERTIFICATION REMINDER - If you are basing your qualifications on a certification or if the position requires a certification to qualify, you must submit a copy of your certification with your application.
TRANSCRIPT REMINDER - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected