Position Title
Clinical Lab Scientist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-12797687-25-CR Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 10, 2025 to Tuesday, September 16, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
1.
*-1. ENGLISH PROFICIENCY: Clinical Laboratory Scientist must be proficient in spoken and written English. Are you proficient in spoken and written English?

Are you proficient in both written and spoken English?
 A. Yes, I am proficient in spoken and written English.
 B. No, I am not proficient in spoken and written English. I understand that I am not eligible for this position.
2.
*-2. Basic Requirement: Education: Clinical Laboratory Scientist must possess one of the following: A bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university in medical laboratory science, medical technology, clinical laboratory science or in a related science (e.g., laboratory sciences such as chemistry, biochemistry, biology, microbiology, immunology, etc.).

Please select the following answer that best describes your Education

*You must provide a copy of your transcripts with your job application.
 A. I have a bachelor’s degree or higher from an accredited college or university in medical laboratory science, medical technology, clinical laboratory science or in a related science (e.g., laboratory sciences such as chemistry, biochemistry, biology, microbiology, immunology, etc.).
 B. I do not have a bachelor’s degree or higher from an accredited college or university in medical laboratory science, medical technology, clinical laboratory science or in a related science (e.g., laboratory sciences such as chemistry, biochemistry, biology, microbiology, immunology, etc.).
3. *-3. Certification: Candidates must have either (A)or (B) below:

Please select the following response that best describes your Certification.

*You must provide a copy of your certification with your job application.
 A. I currently possess the Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT.
 B. I possess the Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT.
 C. My certification is not reflected in answers A or B, but I meet the education requirement in question #2. I can be selected on a Temporary appointment NTE 2 pending certification at the entry level of GS-7.
 D. My certification criteria does not meet answers A,B or C.
4. *-4. For the GS-07 Clinical Laboratory Scientist: Experience or Education. Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:

Experience. None beyond the Basic requirement: 

Education: A bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university in medical laboratory science, medical technology, clinical laboratory science or in a related science (e.g., laboratory sciences such as chemistry, biochemistry, biology, microbiology, immunology, etc.).
AND

Certification: MLS given by ASCP, BOC or AMT OR an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT. **Or meet the exception of Non certified candidates. 

 A. Yes, I meet the basic requirement for this position to meet the GS-07 level.
 B. No, I do not meet the basic requirement for this position to meet the GS-07 level.
5. *-5. For the GS-09 Clinical Laboratory Scientist: Experience or Education. Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:
Experience. 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade.
OR
,Education: Master's degree or 2 academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in medical technology or a directly related science.                                                                                                   
AND
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities.  In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
1. Knowledge of policies and procedures of clinical laboratory testing.
2. Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance principles.
3. Knowledge of laboratory equipment and routine maintenance.
4. Ability to work as a team member and effectively complete assignments.
5. Ability to read and interpret written instructions.
6. Ability to accurately perform pre-analytical, analytical, and post-analytical phases of testing.

*Please select the following response that best describes your education or experience along with your knowledge, skills and abilities for the GS-09.
 A. I have the year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, which is directly related to the position to be filled and demonstrate all the Knowledge, skills and abilities (1-7) listed above.
 B. I have a Master’s degree or 2 academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in medical technology or a directly related science and demonstrate all the Knowledge, skills and abilities (1-6) listed above.
 C. My education and experience is not reflected in answers A or B.
6. *-6. For the GS-11 Clinical Laboratory Scientist: Experience or Education. Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:

Experience. 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade.
OR,
Education: Must have 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science.
AND
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities.  In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
1. Knowledge of professional clinical laboratory science principles, practices, concepts, and theories that support sound and independent work.
2. Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance procedures and principles of performance improvement.
3. Skill in informatics, laboratory data flow, and laboratory processes.
4. Ability to maintain, troubleshoot, and repair instrumentation.
5. Ability to use independent technical judgment to analyze and interpret laboratory results.
6. Ability to read, interpret, and apply complex written instructions.
7. Ability to communicate, consult, and interact with other members of the health care team, external relations, customer service, and patient education.

*Please select the following response that best describes your education or experience along with your knowledge, skills and abilities for the GS-11.
 A. I have the year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, which is directly related to the position to be filled and demonstrate all the Knowledge, skills and abilities (1-7) listed above.
 B. I have 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science and demonstrate all the Knowledge, skills and abilities (1-7) listed above.
 C. My education and experience is not reflected in answers A or B.
7. NARRATIVE: NARRATIVE: RESUME REMINDER: 
Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title
Duties (Be as detailed as possible.)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g., June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)

TRANSCRIPT REMINDER: Transcript(s) must be submitted if education is used to meet any requirement. Conferral of degrees earned should be present on transcript(s). Unofficial transcript(s) are acceptable.

CERTIFICATION REMINDER: You must submit a copy of your Certification listed with your application.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected