Position Title
Supervisory Equipment Specialist
Agency
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
Announcement Number
DE-12797256-25-PQ Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 11, 2025 to Wednesday, September 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than USDA? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

 For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Would you accept a term appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a retiree receiving a civilian Federal or FSA County Annuity?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Have you ever received a voluntary separation incentive payment (VSIP or buyout) to leave the Federal civilian service or FSA County position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former: Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a federal employee receiving a recruitment, relocation, retention and/or other incentive payment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Once a selection is made for this position, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with other hiring managers in the agency who have similar vacancies. Please opt in below if you're willing to have your name, application material, and assessment results shared to be considered for additional, similar positions. There is no guarantee for further consideration.
 A. Opt-in: Please share my name, application material, and assessment results with additional hiring managers within the agency for similar positions.
 B. Opt-out: I only want to be considered for positions associated with this specific application.
Core Questions
1. Has your work schedule been full-time, i.e., 35-40 hours per week, for every position listed on your resume or OF-612?

If yes, please type Yes.
If no, please type No and include the following in your response for all positions held: position title, employer, dates employed (MM/DD/YY), work schedule (i.e., Full-Time (FT), Part-Time (PT), etc.), and hours/week. Please list in order with current/most recent position first.
Failure to provide all requested information may prevent us from giving credit for experience.
2. I understand for information on the status of my application and the outcome of the application process, I (the applicant) must inquire through USAJOBS. No separate notification will be sent to me. To view the status of my application and the outcome of the application process, I must go to the USAJOBS website and log into My Account. Once in My Account, I must enter the "Application Status" section of the website.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD 214, 50B, performance appraisal may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I understand that any correspondence necessary will be conducted via e-mail and sent to the e-mail address I provided in this application process. I must keep this e-mail address current.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. GS-12 - Choose one answer that best describes your experience.
 A. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet any of the requirements as described.
2. I have carried out the following tasks on behalf of a group of subordinate employees:
 A. Developed employee performance standards
 B. Provided input on or conducted performance appraisals
 C. Enforced workplace standards
 D. Resolved complaints and/or grievances informally
 E. Formally recognized employees for exceptional work
 F. Identified training needs and scheduled the appropriate training to address them
 G. Recommended disciplinary actions
 H. Participated in hiring/promotion decisions
 I. Assured fair administration of Equal Employment Opportunity statutes and principles
 J. None of the above
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
3. Tracking expenditures, complying with spending targets, and controlling the use of funds.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
4. In which of the following do you have experience pertaining to the delivery of services to customers within or outside of your organization?
 A. Responding to requests for assistance or services from staff members outside your immediate work unit.
 B. Using a tracking system to record services requested and delivered to customers
 C. Using a formal tracking system to record and report customer complaints
 D. Using a formal tracking system to record errors or deficiencies in products or services delivered to customers
 E. Following a formal process to solicit and record customer feedback
 F. Implementing processes and procedures to ensure customer satisfaction with services delivered.
 G. Dealing with customers to define product or service requirements or specifications, and to reach agreement on terms of delivery e.g. prices, timeliness, quality or similar conditions
 H. None of the above
5. Please identify which of the following changing conditions you have dealt with while maintaining unit productivity and quality:
 A. Deadlines
 B. Requirements/specifications
 C. Budget/staff resources
 D. Technology
 E. Organizational Structure
 F. Management Philosophy
 G. Leadership
 H. Legal or policy requirements
 I. Work place environment or conditions e.g. telecommuting, flexible work schedules
 J. None of the above
6. I am proficient at safely and properly using the following to install, repair, and/or maintain equipment systems/system components:
 A. Common hand tools
 B. Rivet guns
 C. Power hand drills
 D. Grinders
 E. Lathes
 F. Sheet metal cutting equipment
 G. Sheet metal forming equipment
 H. Powered ground equipment
 I. Aircraft jacks
 J. Tow tractors
 K. None of the above
7. As a regular part of jobs I have held, I have inspected equipment systems and system components for the following purposes:
 A. To determine the need for maintenance/repair
 B. To comply with program levels of maintenance
 C. To comply with annual inspection requirements
 D. To assure the equipment is operational
 E. To determine if parts/components are repairable or require replacement
 F. None of the above
8. I am proficient at performing the following mechanical work on general equipment:
 A. Calibration of tools and test equipment
 B. Measurement and diagnostic equipment
 C. Mechanic tool kits
 D. Recovery actions involving towing, lifting, and winching
 E. Visual inspections/checks
 F. None of the above
9. I have knowledge of and experience with systems components, maintenance procedures, equipment assembly, installation, and repair of the following:
 A. Repairing machines or systems using hand tools and automotive diagnostic equipment
 B. Performing routine maintenance on equipment and determining when and what kind of maintenance is needed
 C. Determining causes of operating errors and deciding what to do about it
 D. Watching gauges, dials, or other indicators to make sure a machine is working properly
 E. None of the above
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
10. Making alterations to systems/system components for the development and installation of specialized equipment for scientific research and development projects.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
11. Dealing with contractors and/or vendors in the purchase of specialized equipment for scientific research and development projects.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
11a. If you responded that you have experience to the question, please indicate in the box below where this training and/or experience is represented on your resume. Please list only the relevant position title(s), organization(s), and dates held.
12. From the following list of equipment management activities, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied at work.
 A. Prepared directives for the inspection, servicing and disposal of equipment
 B. Revised and updated technical publications for existing equipment
 C. Developed training guides for the calibration, capacity and use of equipment
 D. Used automated systems for equipment management of schematics, specifications, manuals, etc.
 E. Generated technical order supplements
 F. Briefed management concerning equipment issues, problems and requirements
 G. Communicated with vendors regarding equipment malfunction or discrepancies in equipment operation
 H. Made recommendations to management for the replacement, enhancement or disposal of equipment
 I. Purchased new equipment and/or supplies for existing equipment
 J. None of the above
12a. If you responded that you have experience to the question, please indicate in the box below where this training and/or experience is represented on your resume. Please list only the relevant position title(s), organization(s), and dates held.
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
13. Developing training aids and providing technical advice in the calibration, maintenance, and use of equipment for best results and safe operation.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
14. I am proficient at reviewing and interpreting the following to perform installation, maintenance, systems/parts replacement, and/or repairs on equipment for scientific research and development projects:
 A. Blueprints
 B. Wiring diagrams
 C. Statements of Work
 D. Schematic diagrams
 E. Technical publications
 F. Manufacturers’ service manuals
 G. Maintenance manuals
 H. Engineering data
 I. None of the above
15. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 A. Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 B. No, I do not certify and I understand that by responding “no” to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected