Position Title
Regional Fire Budget Analyst
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
R2-25-12787833-SJ-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 2, 2025 to Monday, September 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Career Transition Assistance Plan: 

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.


Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in the agency posting this job announcement with CTAP eligibility?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Competitive - Current Permanent Department of the Interior (or any of its Bureaus) Employee: 

Please select YES to this eligibility if you meet the criteria below:

Are you an employee of the Department of Interior or any of its bureaus who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment (tenure 1 or 2 in block 24 of the SF-50) in the competitive service (position occupied is 1 in block 34 of the SF-50) and has never permanently held the full performance level of the position being announced?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your current, permanent, competitive status with the Department of Interior or any of its bureaus. Your latest SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• Career or Career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in block 24 of the SF-50); AND,
• your status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in block 34 of the SF-50).

Do you wish to be considered as a Competitive, Current, Permanent DOI (or any of its Bureaus) Employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA)

Are you a current or former employee of a Land Management Agency (U.S. Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) and are serving or served under a time-limited competitive service appointment (Term, Temporary)?  You may be eligible to compete under the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act, P.L. 114-47.

Current land management agency appointees must have initially been hired under competitive procedures for a time-limited appointment; must have served under one or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former land management agency employees must have initially been hired under competitive procedures for a time-limited appointment; must have served under one or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service; must have been separated (with respect to their most recent separation) for reasons other than misconduct or performance, and must apply for a position covered by these provisions within two years of their most recent date of separation.

You must provide documentation showing all required periods of service which includes ALL Appointment AND Termination SF-50s for EACH appointment as well as ALL performance evaluations or references from supervisors (if employed for periods of time too short to require an appraisal) for each qualifying period of temporary employment claimed.

For more information about Land Management Workforce Eligibility:  USAJOBS Help Center - Land management

Are you a current or former employee of a Land Management Agency with LMWFA eligibility?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Non-Competitive - Current, Permanent Employee of the U.S. Department of the Interior (or any of its Bureaus):

Please select YES to this Eligibility if you meet the criteria below:

Are you an employee of the Department of the Interior or any of its bureaus who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment in the competitive service who holds or has previously held a permanent (non-temporary) position at the same or higher full performance level as the position being announced?

To verify your eligibility, you MUST submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status with the U.S. Department of the Interior or any of its bureaus.

Your latest SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• Career or Career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND
• your status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1)

Do you wish to be considered as a non-competitive current, permanent DOI (or any of its bureaus) employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Phoenix, AZ
 B. Sasabe, AZ
 C. Yuma, AZ
 D. Albuquerque, NM
 E. Roswell, NM
 F. Cache, OK
 G. Vian, OK
 H. Alamo, TX
 I. Austwell, TX
 J. Brazoria, TX
 K. Houston, TX
 L. Marble Falls, TX
 M. Winnie, TX
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
11
12
Essay
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Minimum Qualifications GS-11
1. Select the response below that most accurately describes how you meet the minimum qualification requirement for the position of Budget Analyst at the GS-11 grade level.

 A. I possess one year of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-9 grade level in the Federal Service (obtained in either the public or private sectors). Specialized experience may include: provide technical advice on wildland fire program business rules; review financial budgetary documents; analyze financial statements; and collaborate in the resolution of financial or program audits.
 B. I possess three years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D., or possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or LL.M if related, in Business or Finance or a directly related field that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position.
 C. I possess a combination of specialized experience and graduate education as outlined above which, in combination, equals 100% of the requirement.
 D. I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.
Minimum Qualifications GS-12
2. Select the response below that most accurately describes how you meet the minimum qualification requirement for the position of Budget Analyst at the GS-12 grade level.

 A. I possess one year of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility equivalent to grade GS-11 in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors). Specialized experience may include: compile data on wildland fire program expenditures for presentation and reports; review and monitor obligations and expenditures to ensure compliance with obligation; compile and submit cost documentation packages; respond to inquiries on budgetary matters on behalf of an agency; and formulate and discuss budget plans, estimates, and justifications for management officials.
 B. I do not possess the above experience.
Knowledge of the principles, concepts, and function of wildland fire management in order to understand budgetary requests or requirements.
3. Please select all statements that reflect your experience in providing advisory services related to Fire business and budget:

 A. I create and disseminate financial plans and guidelines that affects the authorization and utilization of funds.
 B. I deliver technically accurate responses to inquiries from regions or programs concerning fire business and budget-related matters.
 C. I produce written guidance for managers and field administrative personnel on procedures for fire budget formulation and execution.
 D. I prepare communications and technical guidance addressing fire business and budget topics for regional or program use.
 E. I prepare manual supplements covering fire business subjects.
 F. I prepare manual supplements detailing fire budget processes.
 G. None of the above.
4. Please select all areas of fire budget execution in which you have experience:

 A. Maintaining an accurate system to assess the status of assigned budgets.
 B. Establishing controls on fund expenditures to prevent over obligation.
 C. Tracking the utilization and availability of funds.
 D. Reconciling assigned budgets by identifying discrepancies and taking corrective actions.
 E. Preparing budget-related reports that detail the status of funds.
 F. Monitoring financial plans for the current fiscal year.
 G. None of the above.
5. Please select all the budget and management systems that you use:

 A. GrantSoultions.
 B. Budget Tracking System (BTS).
 C. Financial and Business Management System (FBMS).
 D. iSuites.
 E. None of the above.
6. Please select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience with the budget process:

 A. In collaboration with program leaders, I develop the annual budget for an organization or program.
 B. I provide input to the organizational budget.
 C. I request funds at the time expenditures are made.
 D. I am responsible for tracking expenditures throughout the year and provide reports as required.
 E. I have limited input in the budget process.
 F. I have no experience with the budget process.
Knowledge of other agencies and cooperators practices and procedures in fire management activities to interface fire business plans and actions with the interagency fire community.
7. Please select all statements that describe your level of experience regarding the interpersonal skills you regularly utilize in the workplace:
 A. I explain technical issues to diverse audience, both within and outside of my agency or organization.
 B. I establish and maintain working relationships with representatives from other organizations.
 C. I provide advice, guidance or direction to staff concerning regulations and procedures.
 D. I clarify requirements, exchange routine information and gather any missing information.
 E. I facilitate negotiations among parties with differing interests to reach consensus on changes impacting the program or work product.
 F. I navigate situations where shifts in priorities, work assignments, or deadlines occur frequently due to delays or unforeseen events.
 G. None of the above.
8. Do you have experience developing and implementing regional guidelines, guidance, and/or agreements to support the fire management program in accordance with national policy?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Skill in interpreting and managing financial documents to resolve issues where governing laws and regulations are highly interpretive and/or precedents are non-existent, obscure or conflicting.
9. Please select all statements that reflect your experience in reviewing and improving management control systems related to financial planning and budget integration:

 A. I have conducted comprehensive reviews of financial plans and adjusted them to enhance efficiency in fund usage.
 B. I have developed and implemented systems for tracking records of work accomplishments and performance checks.
 C. I have integrated financial records with automated systems such as the Financial and Business Management Systems (FBMS) to ensure accurate reporting and accountability.
 D. I have scheduled and directed financial reviews to assess the effectiveness of management controls.
 E. I have provided training or guidance to staff on best practices in financial management controls.
 F. None of the above.
10. Please select all statements that describe your experience with establishing control procedures for suppression funds and managing violations:

 A. I have formulated effective control procedures to prevent deficits in suppression funds.
 B. I have monitored obligations to ensure they do not exceed approved apportionments.
 C. I have investigated reports of Incident Business violations related to wildfire suppression fund authorization.
 D. I have prepared formal reports on findings from investigations for submission to higher management.
 E. I have coordinated budgetary practices and procedures across different divisions to maintain financial standards.
 F. None of the above.
Ability to develop and execute Agreements, MOUs, and contracts for use by interagency fire programs.
11. Please select all statements that describe your experience with coordinating and monitoring fire business related agreements, Memorandum of Understanding (MOU), and contracts:

 A. I prepare statements of work and cost estimates for fire business related matters in accordance with laws, regulations, procedures, and guidance.
 B. I draft and/or review interagency and intra-agency agreements, MOUs and/or contracts for fire business requirements.
 C. I facilitate agreement and contracting activities with other government agencies that have interconnected requirements to ensure deadlines are met.
 D. I oversee grants, agreements and/or contracts to ensure that effective control and tracking systems are implemented, preventing authorized expenditure and obligation levels from being exceeded.
 E. I enforce the terms and conditions of grants or agreements.
 F. I coordinate with contracting officers regarding contract modifications.
 G. None of the above.
Resume Length
12. I understand that only the first two pages of my resume will be used to determine my qualifications.
 A. Yes.
 B. No.
Integrity Certification
13. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected