Position Title
CBP Agriculture Specialist
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
AGS 25-2 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, July 25, 2025 to Friday, August 1, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who meets one of the following criteria:
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) Eligible:  You have received notice that you will be displaced from the DHS, or
Displaced DHS employee with a confirmed Reemployment Priority List (RPL) registration: 
You have received notice that you will be displaced from the DHS, or
You have been separated by a reduction in force (RIF) from DHS within the last two years, or
You are fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year from date of separation from DHS due to a Workers Compensation Claim? 
 If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency? If yes, confirm:
You occupy (or have been separated from) a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. While the location in this announcement is "Location Negotiable," the following duty locations are most likely to have CBP Agriculture Specialist vacancies at the time of your final offer. Offers are made based on operational needs and requirements and are determined by the CBP Office of Field Operations. Although the locations listed below will most likely be available, the duty location offered in your final offer letter may include any geographic location within the United States that meets agency mission-critical needs.

Select your preferred duty location from the list below.
 A. Douglas, Arizona
 B. San Luis, Arizona
 C. San Francisco, California
 D. Washington, DC
 E. Miami, Florida
 F. Chicago, Illinois
 G. Detroit, Michigan
 H. Newark, New Jersey
 I. El Paso, Texas
 J. Hidalgo, Texas
2. You may be required to complete a polygraph examination during the pre-employment process. If required, you will be contacted by the Office of Professional Responsibility to schedule the required polygraph examination and may be required to travel to attend the polygraph. Please provide your ONE preferred location for your polygraph. CBP will do its best to schedule you at your preferred location. However, you may be required to travel to attend the polygraph. CBP will not reimburse you for travel to or from the polygraph site.
--Select-- 
--Select--
AZ: Tucson [1001]
AZ: Yuma [1002]
CA: Aliso Viejo (LA/SD) [1004]
CA: San Diego [1003]
CA: San Francisco [1006]
FL: Miramar [1010]
FL: Orlando [1011]
GA: Atlanta (Kennesaw) [1040]
IL: Chicago [1013]
IN: Indianapolis [1014]
ME: Portland [1035]
MI: Detroit [1015]
MN: Bloomington (Mpls/St Paul) [1016]
NJ: Newark [1017]
NY: Buffalo [1018]
NY: Valley Stream [1019]
PR: San Juan [1038]
TN: Nashville [1048]
TX: El Paso [1021]
TX: Houston [1022]
TX: Irving (Dallas/Ft Worth) [1023]
TX: McAllen [1025]
TX: San Antonio [1046]
WA: Seattle [1007]
Washington, DC [1008]
3. Applicants are highly encouraged to "Opt-in" for text message reminders!
For applicants who receive a tentative selection offer from Customs and Border Protection, the CBP Hiring Center is offering text messaging reminders. This service will provide you with helpful reminders of scheduled appointments as you move through the pre-employment process. All automated messages are programmed to remind applicants of upcoming appointments (i.e., medical appointment, fitness test reminder, etc.) approximately 3-days out from the appointment dates. Text messaging will not replace any form of official communication, but is intended solely as an added service to reinforce communication.

You may choose to "Opt-in" for this customer service option. Based on conditions set by your mobile carrier, standard text messaging rates may apply which will not be reimbursed by U.S. Customs and Border Protection. Please check with your carrier to address any potential costs to you to ensure receiving text messaging is an option available to you based on the terms of your service contract. Some carriers may also block incoming "fee generating" text messages or messages from outlying sources and some messages may appear truncated based on limitations imposed by your carrier. Current system constraints with some carriers may not support text messaging service. If you choose to opt-in at this time, you may elect to discontinue this service later by contacting the CBP Hiring Center.

Please select your carrier below. If you do not wish to "Opt In" for text messaging reminders, please choose the last option.
--Select-- 
--Select--
AT&T [0002]
Boost Mobile [0003]
Cricket Wireless [0004]
Sprint [0006]
T-Mobile [0007]
Verizon [0008]
Virgin Mobile USA [0009]
Cellular South [0012]
Centennial Wireless [0013]
Qwest [0015]
Simple Mobile [0016]
TracFone [0017]
Other [0010]
I do NOT opt in to receive text messaging reminders
4. If you opted in for text messaging reminders, please add you cell phone number below in this format: xxx-xxx-xxxx

If you did not opt in for text messaging reminders, please enter N/A below.
5. How did you first hear about this position?
--Select-- 
--Select--
Attended an in-person or virtual event or spoke with a CBP recruiter
Referred by a friend or family member
Previous CBP employment experience
Previous CBP job application
USAJOBS.gov search
CBP advertisement on social media or online
CBP advertisement in theater, television, or film
CBP advertisement in print (newspaper, magazine, etc.)
CBP advertisement on outdoor banner or billboard
CBP advertisement on radio
Social media post or video
News story
A job board
Internet Search
6. If you have received a tentative selection letter and are currently in the pre-employment process for an entry-level CBP Agriculture Specialist position at any grade (GS-5, 7 or 9), all active pre-employment process statuses will be applied to this application (e.g., medical status, background investigation, etc.).

Do you want to continue with your application?
 A. Not Applicable, I am a new applicant
 B. Yes, I want to continue and I understand that all active pre-employment process statuses will be applied to this application
 C. No, I do not want to continue and I understand this application will be closed and not used
7. If you are a current CBP employee seeking reassignment to another duty location, we encourage you to pursue internal opportunities for reassignment that may be available to you via merit promotion or reassignment opportunity announcements.

Note: Applying to and accepting a job offer under this announcement will require you to accept the grade level stated in the announcement, which might require a change to lower grade action. If you are a current GS-12 step 1, your salary may be reduced to a GS-5 step 10. Re-promotion is not guaranteed. Timeframes for grade level re-promotion is at the discretion of the agency and may be subject to a probationary period. If you are currently receiving a retirement annuity from OPM based on retiring from the Federal government and you are selected for this position, please note that your Federal salary will be off-set by the amount of your retirement annuity.

Do you wish to continue with the entry-level process?
 A. Not Applicable, I am a new applicant
 B. Yes, I understand the impact on my pay and promotions of reapplying to the entry level process
 C. No, I do not wish to continue with the entry level hiring process
8. Are you willing to undergo a background investigation and a polygraph examination for this position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Have you used (including injecting, snorting, inhaling, swallowing, etc.), experimented with, received, purchased, transferred, or distributed marijuana/THC, anabolic steroids, or inhalants OR experimented with, transferred or distributed prescription drugs?
 A. Never
 B. Yes and I understand that I will be required to provide detailed information regarding this, and it will be taken into consideration during my background investigation.
10. Excluding above - Have you used (including injecting, snorting, inhaling, swallowing, etc.), experimented with, received, purchased, transferred, or distributed Schedule I-V controlled substance? Examples of controlled substances include cocaine or crack cocaine (e.g., rock, freebase, etc.), hallucinogenics (e.g., LSD, PCP, mushrooms, peyote, mescaline, etc.), ketamine (e.g., special K, jet, etc.), narcotics (e.g., opium, heroin, etc.), or stimulants (e.g., speed, crystal meth, ecstasy, etc.). Drug usage information will be taken into consideration during the background investigation.
 A. Never
 B. 0-3 years ago
 C. 3-7 years ago
 D. 7 or More years ago
11. CBP is committed to a drug-free workplace. This position requires drug testing as part of the pre-employment process and also requires random drug testing after you enter on duty.

Note: Several states now allow recreational and medicinal use of marijuana. However, CBP does not permit the use of marijuana as it is still an illegal drug per federal law.

By submitting this application, I acknowledge and understand that I have to successfully pass a drug test during the pre-employment process and that the Agency will remove me from consideration if I do not successfully pass the drug test. Additionally should I enter on duty as an employee I will be required to participate in random drug testing in accordance with the Agency's drug-free workplace policy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. The CBP Agriculture Specialist position has medical qualification standards to ensure those tasked with the position's responsibilities are medically, physically, and mentally capable of performing the essential tasks and job functions in an efficient and safe manner without endangering the health and safety of co-workers, the public, or oneself.

CBP will schedule, provide, and pay for the required basic medical examination. If medical information is recommended beyond the pre-placement examination, it is provided at the candidate's expense.

I understand that if I receive a tentative selection, I will be required to meet the medical requirements and if travel is necessary to complete the medical or a medical follow-up is required, I understand I may incur additional expenses.
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Will you comply with the following pre-employment requirements?
Undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug-screening test
Undergo and successfully pass a comprehensive medical examination to determine fitness for employment in U.S. Customs and Border Protection
Undergo and successfully pass a background investigation
Undergo and successfully pass a structured interview
 A. Yes
 B. No
14. New recruits to the CBP Agriculture Specialist job receive extensive training before beginning official duties. Please answer the following question with the understanding that you will be trained before assuming duty as a CBP Agriculture Specialist. These duties represent some, but not all, of the essential functions of the CBP Agriculture Specialist occupation. Will you comply with the following on the job requirements and/or conditions?
Be exposed to people who carry infectious diseases
Potentially be assigned to small, remote locations or large metropolitan areas
Enforce all Federal laws without exception regardless of your personal feelings about these laws and regulations
Be required to work overtime based on operational needs
Be exposed to all kinds of weather and environmental conditions, such as contact with potentially harmful substances (hazardous materials), vehicle exhaust fumes, and slippery surfaces; Employees will be provided appropriate personal protective equipment for all of these conditions
Engage in strenuous physical exertion, such as heavy lifting, crouching or crawling in restricted areas, climbing, and running
Occasionally travel for conferences, training, or special operations
Be required to serve a probationary period in accordance with the Department of Homeland Security policy and Office of Personnel Management regulations as put forth in Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 315 Section 801 (5CFR315.801) and understand that right(s) and entitlement(s) for adverse and disciplinary actions will be processed In accordance with the provisions of the 5 CFR 315.806
Attend and successfully complete a 59 day training program at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center in Glynco, GA
Submit to random drug testing after employment
Certify that you will have a valid driver's license at the time of your appointment as a CBP Agricultural Specialist and that you are not prohibited from obtaining a valid driver's license in the United States
 A. Yes
 B. No
15. CBP Agriculture Specialists are required to wear a prescribed uniform and to conform to established grooming standards. Will you comply with these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
16. It is critical to our mission of protecting our nation's borders and citizens that CBP Agriculture Specialists be available to work at any time. Therefore, it is a condition of employment that all CBP Agriculture Specialists comply with the requirement to be available as part of their regular work schedule on weekend, evenings and nights, holidays and unscheduled overtime as CBP determines necessary.

Would you be able to work a schedule that could include changing your days off within the seven calendar days of Sunday through Saturday?
 A. Yes
 B. No
17. To ensure the accomplishment of our mission, CBP requires every employee to be reliable, trustworthy, and fit for duty. I hereby certify to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information provided by me is true, correct, and complete and made in good faith. I understand that a false statement on any part of this inquiry may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. False or fraudulent information provided herein is also criminally punishable pursuant to federal law, including 10 U.S.C.1001.

By clicking "Yes" below, I certify that the information I have provided is true to the best of my knowledge.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. U.S. Customs and Border Protection has a residency requirement that applies to all applicants not currently employed by CBP. Individuals are required to have physically resided in the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law) for at least three (3) of the last five (5) years before completing an application for CBP employment. Primary residence is defined as the place where an individual physically resides and the place from which he or she commutes to an official duty station. An individual may have more than one residence (including but not limited to a second home, a vacation home, or an investment property), but can establish only one primary residence. If hired for this position, you will be required to maintain your primary residence in the United States.If you do not meet the residency requirement as stated above and you have been physically located in a foreign location for more than two (2) of the last five (5) years, you may request an exception to determine if you are eligible for a residency waiver by meeting one or more of the following conditions:
Working for the U.S. Government as a federal civilian or as a member of the military; or
A dependent of a federal civilian or member of the military who was working for the U.S. Government; or
Working as a contractor employee, a volunteer, a consultant or an intern for the U.S. Government, or
Participation in a study abroad program sponsored by a U.S. affiliated college or university
If selected for a position, you must provide documentation to support a request for an exception to the residency requirement.

Do you meet the U.S. Customs and Border Protection residency requirement?
 A. Yes, I have lived in the United States (or one of its territories or protectorates) for at least three (3) of the last five (5) years prior to submitting this application
 B. Yes, for at least three (3) of the last five (5) years prior to submitting this application, I have maintained United States residency by one or more of the following conditions: 1) worked for the U.S. Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or military capacity, or 2) was a dependent of a U.S. Federal or military employee serving overseas
 C. No, I do not meet the residency requirement and am therefore requesting an exception to the policy and I can provide documentation of my eligibility for a residency waiver from a stateside-based company, school, and/or individual(s) who will account for any periods of my residency outside of the United States during at least three (3) of the last five (5) years prior to submitting this application
 D. No, I do not meet the residency requirement and I am NOT requesting a waiver for an exception to this requirement and I understand I will not be considered for this job announcement
2. All CBP applicants are required to successfully complete a background investigation. You may be given an opportunity to start your career with CBP earlier if you elect to enter on duty (EOD) with a provisional clear. A provisional clear is based on the successful completion of certain pre-employment investigation checks. The decision to enter on duty with a provisional clear, if made available, is your decision to make. Should you choose not to enter on duty in a provisional clear status, your application and eligibility for this position will not be negatively affected; however, your EOD date may be delayed.

If you EOD with a provisional clear and your full background investigation is not successfully completed, you will be removed from the position with CBP.

If offered a position, do you elect to enter on duty (EOD) under a provisional clear status?
 A. Yes, I DO elect to enter on duty (EOD) under a provisional clear status if offered a position; I further understand that I must successfully complete the full background investigation and will be removed from this position if I am found unsuitable for continued employment
 B. No, I DO NOT elect to enter on duty (EOD) under a provisional clear status if offered a position
3. Are you a current or former Federal employee?
 A. Yes and I understand it is recommended I submit an SF-50 “Notification of Personnel Action” with my application and that I will be required to submit an SF-50 if I receive a tentative job offer
 B. No
The CBP Agriculture Specialist has a Basic Requirement. The following questions will be used to determine whether or not you meet the mandatory Basic Requirement for this position. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts.

Basic Requirement: You must meet this Basic Requirement in order to be considered for the position.

       1. Degree:  Possess a bachelor's degree (or higher) in biological sciences, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position;   
 
 OR      
       
       2. Combination of education and experience: Completed at least 24 semester hours (36 quarter hours) in a qualifying field of study, as shown above, PLUS qualifying experience or additional education.  To determine if you meet the combination, divide the months of qualifying experience by 48; divide the number of undergraduate semester hours by 120 (or 180 for undergraduate quarter hours); add the two percentages together; the total must equal at least 100% or more.
4. Basic Requirement - Which of the following best describes your education to qualify for the Basic Requirement and for the GS-5 grade level?
 A. I have received a bachelor's degree (or higher) in a qualifying field of study.
 B. I have completed a four-year course study (at least 120 semester hours) leading to a bachelor's degree that includes at least 24 semester hours (36 quarter hours) in a qualifying field of study.
 C. I have a combination of education which includes at least 24 semester hours / 36 quarter hours in a qualifying field of study AND additional education or appropriate experience.
 D. I do not meet the Basic Requirement described above and I understand my application will not receive further consideration.
5. GS-7 - In addition to the Basic Requirement, which of the following best describes your education and/or experience to qualify for the GS-7 grade level?
 A. I have successfully completed at least one year of graduate education leading to a master’s degree (or higher) from an accredited college or university in a qualifying field of study.
 B. I have successfully completed a bachelor’s degree in a qualifying field of study from an accredited college or university with Superior Academic Achievement (i.e., GPA 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 scale), which is based on one of the following: class standing, grade-point average, or honor society membership that includes at least 24 semester hours in a qualifying field of study.
 C. I have one year of specialized work experience equivalent to the next lower grade level that includes effectively dealing with individuals or groups of persons in a courteous, tactful manner in connection with agricultural matters; researching information for reports and providing information to others; analyzing information rapidly and making prompt decisions; enforcing regulations when inspecting vessels, vehicles, aircraft and/or baggage for the presence of restricted plant materials, pests or diseases and reviewing and analyzing passengers or commodity documents to assess the agricultural risk of their entry into the United States.
 D. I have a combination of successfully completed graduate level education in a qualifying field of study AND specialized work experience when combined is at least 100% or more as described in the Combining Education and Experience statement in the announcement.
 E. I do not possess the education or specialized experience as described above.
6. GS-9 - In addition to the Basic Requirement, which of the following best describes your education and/or experience to qualify for the GS-9 grade level?
 A. I have successfully completed two years or more of full-time graduate education or received a master's degree (or higher) in a qualifying field of study from an accredited college or university.
 B. I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level that includes coordinating, planning and executing inspection assignments, investigating violations, preparing investigative reports and providing testimony; compiling data and preparing reports in connection with agricultural matters and inspection operations; and overseeing treatments such as disinfection, sterilization, and decontamination.
 C. I have a combination of successfully completed graduate education in a qualifying field of study AND specialized work experience that is at least 100% or more as described in the Combining Education and Experience statement in the announcement.
 D. I do not possess the education or the experience as described above.
7. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.
Your resume must:
Be written in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
Current and former Federal employees MUST include your salary, pay scale and pay grade for that work experience to be considered
Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may result in removal from consideration
8. Indicate the extent to which you have interacted with individuals within (co-workers, supervisors, subordinates, etc.) and outside (passengers, customers, representatives from other agencies) of your organization.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had routine, limited interaction with individuals within and outside of my organization, such as receiving information from my supervisor or answering straightforward questions or uncomplicated requests for information
 C. I have interacted with others within and outside of my organization to resolve day-to-day issues and ensure the completion of group projects. I have assisted external customers in clarifying their needs or resolving routine problems.
 D. I have worked on projects that have involved moderately complex interaction with team members or external customers. I have assisted external customers in defining their needs or resolving moderately complex problems.
 E. I have worked on projects that have involved extensive interaction with team members or external customers in complex situations. I have served as a team leader, or have been responsible for negotiating resolutions to group issues.
9. Select the statement which best described how you typically plan and organize your work.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have followed schedules, goals, and guidelines prepared by my supervisor
 C. I have set goals and priorities for my own work to ensure that deadlines were met
 D. I have set goals and priorities for my own work and coordinated activities and timelines with others to ensure that project goals and deadlines were met (e.g., coordinated regulatory actions with brokers or importers)
 E. I have set project requirements and priorities, developed strategies to achieve goals, and determined work requirements to include resources and personnel
10. Select the choice which best described your experience working in or leading work-related teams.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task
 B. I have participated as a team member, receiving task assignments and project goals from my supervisor, team leader, etc.
 C. I have served as a team leader, communicating task assignments and project goals to team members and monitoring progress
 D. I have led several multi-dimensional teams, ensuring that team members met project goals and deadlines, and I have provided feedback on individual team member performance
11. Indicate the extent of your experience in expressing facts and ideas in writing.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task
 B. I have written short responses to routine requests for information
 C. I have written portions of non-technical reports, information papers, and other documents
 D. I have independently composed formal technical and non-technical written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, and other complete documents
 E. I have extensive experience completing formal written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, and other complete documents for both internal and external stakeholders. I have successfully tailored controversial or sensitive information to the level of my audience.
12. Indicate the extent of your experience performing inspections and taking regulatory action.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task
 B. I have received training in performing inspections (e.g., luggage, mail, conveyances, facilities) and applying regulatory-based actions on those inspections, but have not yet applied it on the job
 C. I have performed inspections (e.g., luggage, mail, conveyances, facilities) and proposed regulatory-based actions under the close supervision of a senior individual
 D. I have independently performed inspections (e.g., luggage, mail, conveyances, facilities) and taken regulatory action based on my findings. My work was only occasionally subject to review by a senior individual.
13. Indicate the extent of your experience obtaining oral declarations from passengers by verbally asking agricultural questions.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task
 B. I have received training in obtaining oral declarations from passengers by verbally asking agricultural questions, but have not yet applied it on the job
 C. I have obtained oral declarations from passengers by verbally asking agricultural questions under the close supervision of a senior individual
 D. I have independently obtained oral declarations from passengers by verbally asking agricultural questions, including collecting amended declarations. My work was only occasionally subject to review by a senior individual.
14. Indicate the extent of your experience using proper interviewing techniques to elicit/detect potential smuggling and pest risks.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task
 B. I have received training in proper interviewing techniques to elicit/detect potential smuggling and pest risks, but have not yet applied it on the job
 C. I have used proper interviewing techniques to elicit/detect potential smuggling and pest risks under the close supervision of a more senior individual
 D. I have independently used proper interviewing techniques to elicit/detect potential smuggling and pest risks. Enforcement actions were taken based on the information I elicited.
15. Indicate the extent of your experience in using laboratory tools, instruments, or equipment effectively.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task
 B. I have limited experience/training using laboratory tools, instruments, and equipment (e.g., used while in an academic setting)
 C. I have used/operated a wide range of laboratory tools, instruments, and equipment as a regular part of my job
 D. I have used/operated a wide range of laboratory tools, instruments, and equipment as a regular part of my job. I am also able to perform minor maintenance/basic troubleshooting on them.
16. Do you have experience preparing and preserving pests and agriculture-related diseases for later identification?
 A. Yes
 B. No
17. Indicate the extent of your experience explaining to members of the public why specific items are intercepted and restricted/prohibited.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task
 B. I have informed members of the public that specific items are intercepted and restricted/prohibited, and summoned a supervisor or more senior employee if more explanation was needed
 C. I have routinely explained to members of the public the reasons why specific items are intercepted and restricted/prohibited, and summoned a supervisor or more senior employee if more explanation was needed
 D. I have extensive experience explaining to members of the public the reasons why specific items are intercepted and restricted/prohibited. I have been called upon to aid others in this area due to my skill.
18. Do you have experience conducting passenger or cargo targeting?

 A. Yes
 B. No
19. Indicate the extent of your experience identifying, treating, and mitigating biological contaminants in vessels, aircraft, trailers, sea containers, or railcars (e.g. Asian Gypsy Moth egg masses).
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task
 B. I have received training identifying, treating, and mitigating biological contaminants in various containers or conveyances, but have not yet applied it on the job
 C. I have assisted others in identifying, treating, and mitigating biological contaminants in various containers or conveyances, under the close supervision of a senior individual
 D. I have independently identified, treated, and mitigated biological contaminants in various containers or conveyances
20. What is your level of knowledge of biology?

 A. I have no knowledge of biology
 B. I have a basic understanding of biology gained through limited experience or training
 C. I have proficient knowledge of biology gained through substantial experience or training
 D. I have expert knowledge of biology gained through extensive experience or training
21. What is your level of knowledge of entomology?

 A. I have no knowledge of entomology
 B. I have a basic understanding of entomology gained through limited experience or training
 C. I have proficient knowledge of entomology gained through substantial experience or training
 D. I have expert knowledge of entomology gained through extensive experience or training
22. What is your level of knowledge of botany?

 A. I have no knowledge of botany
 B. I have a basic understanding of botany gained through limited experience or training
 C. I have proficient knowledge of botany gained through substantial experience or training
 D. I have expert knowledge of botany gained through extensive experience or training
23. What is your level of knowledge of pathology?

 A. I have no knowledge of pathology
 B. I have a basic understanding of pathology gained through limited experience or training
 C. I have proficient knowledge of pathology gained through substantial experience or training
 D. I have expert knowledge of pathology gained through extensive experience or training
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected