Position Title
Region MWR/Unaccompanied Housing (UH) Support Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12804250 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 18, 2025 to Wednesday, September 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. I am willing and able to travel away from my duty location.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non appropriated Funds employment.  This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Region MWR/UH Support Manager.  Failure to respond will result in an ineligible rating.

Please ensure all of your answers are clearly supported in your resume.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you possess at least 5 years of experience in lodging operations, with at least 3 years supervisory experience, and a bachelors degree in Business, Hotel Management, or related field?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Please provide your level of experience the daily operations of government-owned permanent party barracks, student barracks, or similar hospitality management operations to include safety, environmental and fire prevention regulations and practices; barracks management procedures; front desk operations; housekeeping procedures; and facility maintenance principles and practices.
 A. 5 or more years of experience in this competency.
 B. 3-5 years of experience in this competency.
 C. 1-3 years of experience in this competency.
 D. Less than 1 year of related experience in this competency.
 E. I have no practical experience in this competency.
3. Please explain your level of knowledge regarding federal and state laws, regulations, and policies required to effectively manage human resources requirements (e.g., recruitment and hiring practices, performance management, compensation and pay rules, etc.).
 A. I have 5 or more years of experience in this competency.
 B. I have 3-5 years of experience in this competency.
 C. I have 1-3 years of experience in this competency.
 D. I have less than 1 year of experience in this competency.
 E. I have no practical experience in this competency.
4. Supervisory duties comprise 50% of the time in this role. Please share your level of experience with supervising subordinates and mid-level managers.
 A. I have 5 or more years of experience in this competency.
 B. I have 3-5 years of experience in this competency.
 C. I have 3 or more years of experience managing subordinates, but not mid-level managers.
 D. I have less than 3 years of managing employees.
 E. I have no experience in this competency.
5. This position is responsible for the efficient and proper use of funds associated to the MOA (Memorandum of Agreement) to include labor, equipment and supplies, and maintains fiduciary accountability for the safeguarding of all funds in accordance with government financial guidelines associated with the MOA. What level of experience do you have managing the budget for a multi-unit housing operation?
 A. I have 5 or more years of experience in this competency, as documented in my resume.
 B. I have 3-5 years of experience in this competency, as documented in my resume.
 C. I have 1-3 years of experience in this competency, as documented in my resume.
 D. I have less than 1 year of experience in this competency
 E. I have no experience in this competency.
6. Please explain your level of experience with training of employees to meet program standards and developmental expectations to improve performance in operational management and service delivery.
 A. I have 5 or more years of employee development experience.
 B. I have 3-5 years of employee development experience.
 C. I have less than 1 year of employee development experience.
 D. I have no experience with employee development.
7. Please explain your level of experience with facilities management.
 A. I have 5 or more years of experience with facilities management.
 B. I have 3-5 years of experience with facilities management.
 C. I have 1-3 years of experience with facilities management.
 D. I have less than one year of experience with facilities management.
 E. I have no experience with the desired competency.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected