Position Title
Senior Incident Investigation Coordinator
Agency
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement
Announcement Number
BSEE-EENN-25-JP-060(MP) Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 10, 2025 to Tuesday, September 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Do you wish to be considered as a 30% or more disabled veteran?
Under this authority, an agency may appoint, without competition, an eligible disabled veteran to a term or temporary appointment in the Federal service.  In appropriate circumstances, a person receiving a temporary or term appointment under this authority may be converted to a permanent competitive service appointment.When using this authority to appoint on a permanent basis, you are first placed on a time limited appointment of at least 60 days and then converted to a permanent appointment at management's discretion.

To be eligible for a 30% or more disabled appointment, you must be the following:

Retired from active military service with a disability rating of 30 percent or more; or
Rated by the Department of Veterans' Affairs (VA) as having a compensable, service-connected disability of 30 percent or more.

To claim eligibility under 30% or more disabled, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

If you are claiming eligibility based on 30% or more service connected disability, you are required to submit documentation that is indicated on the SF-15 as acceptable proof of verification of your preference (i.e., official document, dated 1991 or later, from the Department of Veterans Affairs, or from a branch of the Armed Forces, certifying that the veterans total combined serviced-connected disability rating is 30% or more.

For more information on veteran hiring authorities, please click here

 A. Yes
 B. No
2.

Do you wish to be considered under CTAP?
To be eligible for Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP), a person must:

Be a current or former permanent competitive status DOI federal employee displaced from a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy with a current (or last) performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To claim eligibility under CTAP, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

Copies of the appropriate documentation which includes:

Reduction in force (RIF) separation notice;
SF-50 reflecting your RIF separation, or a notice of proposed removal for declining a directed reassignment or transfer of function to another commuting area;
You MUST also submit documentation to reflect your current (or last) performance rating of record.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

Do you wish to be considered under Merit Promotion?
To be eligible under competitive merit promotion, you must be:

A current or former (reinstatement eligible) permanent Federal civilian employee under a competitive career or career-conditional appointment.

To claim eligibility under competitive merit promotion, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

A copy of your most recent SF-50 reflecting current position information and competitive status (SF-50 box #24 - 1 or 2, box #34 - 1), AND if the most recent SF-50 does not show your highest grade held, then you MUST also submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis (No award 50's will be accepted).
 A. Yes
 B. No
4.

Do you wish to be considered under Non-Competitive Merit Promotion?

To be eligible under non-competitive merit promotion, you must be:

A Current or former (reinstatement eligible) competitive, career/career-conditional Federal employee who has previously competed for, held, or currently holds, the full performance level of the position you are applying.

To claim eligibility under non-competitive merit promotion, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

A copy of your most recent or past SF-50 in order to verify your claim for non-competitive eligibility. If the most recent SF-50 does not show your highest grade competed for or held, then you MUST also submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5.

Are you eligible for conversion from a Pathways Internship?
This authority allows for current Pathways Interns that have completed all Pathways program requirements to be non-competitively converted to a permanent or Term position in the competitive service.

To be eligible for non-competitive conversion from a Pathways Intern position, a person must:

Must be a U.S. Citizen
Be within the 180-day conversion time-frame from the date their degree, career, or technical education program requirements are conferred;
Completed at least 480 hours of work experience acquired through the Internship Program while enrolled full-time or part-time;
Completed their degree, career, or technical education program requirements;
Meet the qualification standards for the position to which the Intern will be converted;
Meet agency-specific requirements as specified in the Participant's Agreement; and,
Maintain acceptable performance under the agency's approved performance management system.
Receive favorable recommendation for conversion from supervisor.
Indefinite Interns must have a completed IDP.
 

To claim eligibility for non-competitive conversion under a Pathways Intern appointment, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

Copies of the appropriate documentation including:

Transcripts with degree date, unofficial will be accepted, however official transcripts will be required prior to a final job offer;
Current pathways agreement;
a favorable recommendation for conversion from the work experience supervisor;
Current SF-50 showing Pathways status.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6.

Do you wish to be considered under Schedule A?
To be eligible under Schedule A, you must be:

A candidate with a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.  Under this authority, a person with severe physical or mental disabilities may be appointed without competition to an excepted service position on a temporary or non-temporary basis. Upon completion of two years of satisfactory service under a non-temporary Schedule A appointment, the appointee may be converted to a permanent appointment in the competitive service. *** Please note: This authority cannot be used for Pathways positions.

To claim eligibility under Schedule A, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

A certification statement/proof of disability from a state Vocational Rehabilitation Service (state or private), Department of Veterans Affairs, a licensed medical professional, or any Federal agency, State agency or agency of the District of Columbia or U. S. territory that issues or provides disability benefits.  Note: Certification Statement/Proof of disability (i.e., a record, statement, or other appropriate documentation confirming a severe physical, mental, or psychiatric disability) issued by a licensed medical professional, a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist, or any Federal or State agency that issues or provides disability benefits.
 A. Yes
 B. No
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
7. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
8. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
9. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
10. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
11. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. It is your responsibility to ensure that your resume and correct documents are uploaded and received. Please, verify during the application process on the "application review page" that you have uploaded the appropriate documentation as stated in the required documents section of the vacancy announcement. No documentation will be accepted after the closing date of the announcement. I understand that it is my responsibility that I must submit a resume and all required supporting documentation prior to the closing date of the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. What attracted you to this position?
 A. Service as a Civil Servant
 B. Government Benefits
 C. Salary
 D. Work Schedule Flexibility
 E. Downturn in Non-Federal Job Market
 F. Job Stability
 G. Office Location
 H. Other
3. If you have ever held a Federal position please indicate your pay plan, highest grade held, and dates held below (e.g. GS-13; 08/15/11 - 08/15/12). If applying based on noncompetitive eligibility and if you do not have prior Federal service, please type "N/A" in the text box below. (limit 100 characters)
4. Applicants who apply under this job opportunity announcement have the option to have their application, associated documents and applicable personal information shared with other Bureaus/Offices within the Department of the Interior (DOI) that have vacancies within the same occupational series, grade, promotion potential and in the same geographic location(s), including within the same metro/commuting area. Applying to this announcement does not replace the need to apply to other job opportunity announcements for which you wish to receive consideration. If you select "yes", your information could potentially be shared with other bureaus if there is a need to fill another position. If you select "no", your information will NOT be shared with other bureaus. Do you agree to have your information shared with other bureaus?
 A. Yes, I would like my information shared with other bureaus.
 B. No, I would not like my information shared with other bureaus.
Assessment 1
Please note that you will only be considered for the eligibility option(s) for which you select. You may select more than one option of consideration, if applicable. If the required documentation is not received by the closing date of the announcement, you will be found ineligible for the position and will be removed from further review. A resume is required for ALL consideration options.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. I certify that I have read each of the referral eligibilities identified in this announcement and I have selected the eligibility or eligibilities that I wish to be considered. I understand that failure to identify an eligibility or eligibilities will result in loss of consideration for this announcement. I understand that I must submit all required documentation to verify my eligibility by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Thank you for your interest in this vacancy. Please select the response that best reflects how you meet the qualification requirements for this position.
2. Are you a current Bureau of Safety & Environmental Enforcement (BSEE) employee serving under a permanent competitive service appointment or a current BSEE employee with eligibility under a special appointing authority for an excepted service appointment (e.g. 30% Service Connected, Schedule A)

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Select the statement that most closely matches your experience as defined in the vacancy announcement for the GS-13 grade level.

 A. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 level as described in the vacancy announcement, and it is clearly written in my resume.
 B. None of the above accurately reflects my qualifications.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected