Position Title
Letter and Script Engraver (Bank Note) Apprentice
Agency
Bureau of Engraving and Printing
Announcement Number
26-BEP-12811454-P Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, October 14, 2025 to Thursday, November 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal (i.e. final annual performance appraisal issued and signed by appropriate management official) dated within the last 18 months. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these specific requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so. If you fail to provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration. NOTE: If you are wanting to be considered for non competitive reinstatement a performance appraisal document MUST be submitted to be eligible. Type "yes" in the text box below if you are providing a performance appraisal meeting the above requirements with your application. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application meeting the requirement, please provide a reason in the text box below. ("N/A" is not considered an acceptable response).


4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


5.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


6.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


7.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, choose the statement that describes the highest level of experience you possess to perform the duties of a Letter and Script Engraver, WE-4401-2, without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Letter and Script Engraver duties. I have experience creating original designs, drawings, paintings, or other types of artworks by hand. I perform all tasks with a high level of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of Letter and Script Engraver duties. I have experience creating original digital designs, drawings, and other types of artworks. I am willing to learn about methods for creating and designing artwork. I perform such tasks under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common Letter and Script Engraver duties. I have received training using digital systems and/or freehand methods to create designs, drawings, or artwork. I complete such tasks without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform basic Letter and Script Engraver duties. Under close supervision/guidance, I can use digital systems and/or freehand methods to create designs.
 I do not have the ability to perform Letter and Script Engraver duties. I do not have experience or training, nor do I wish to receive training in methods for creating designs and artwork.


2.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment/experience and job title. We must be able to verify this experience in your resume in order for you to receive credit.


3.
Please select all of the following fields in which you have acquired education and/or experience.
 A. Fine Arts
 B. Digital rendering
 C. Graphic Design
 D. Drafting
 E. None of the above


4.
Please select all of the following "dry art" materials you have experience with.
 A. Charcoal
 B. Graphite
 C. Pastels
 D. Mechanical Pencils
 E. None of the above


5.
Please select all of the following "dry art" techniques you have experience with.
 A. Drafting or Mechanical Drawing
 B. Life drawing - (Live Models)
 C. Landscape drawing
 D. Still Life drawing
 E. None of the above


6.
Please select all of the following "wet art" techniques you have experience with.
 A. Pen & Ink
 B. Printmaking
 C. Sculpting
 D. Painting
 E. None of the above


7.
Please select all of the following "wet art" materials you have experience with.
 A. Acrylic Paint
 B. Watercolor
 C. Intaglio Printmaking materials
 D. Oil Paint
 E. None of the above


8.
Select all of the following digital applications in which you have education/experience with.
 A. Graphic design software
 B. CADVector or equivalent
 C. Adobe Photoshop or Illustrator
 D. None of the above


9.
Select all of the following digital applications in which you have education/experience with.
 A. Adobe Illustrator
 B. Adobe Photoshop
 C. 3-D design software
 D. Procreate or equivalent
 E. None of the above


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


10.
Have you followed specific instructions in order to complete assignments?
 Yes
 No


11.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment and job title. We must be able to verify this experience in your resume in order for you to receive credit.


12.
Select all of the following types of instructions or specifications you have followed.
 A. Blueprints
 B. Work Procedures
 C. Rules and Regulations
 D. Safety Procedures
 E. None of the above


13.
Please select all of the following tools you have experience with.
 A. Graver/Burin
 B. Scraper
 C. Burnisher
 D. Ink Roller
 E. None of the above


14.
Select all of the following tools with which you have experience.
 A. Liquid acid-resist ground
 B. Etching Acid
 C. Ball ground
 D. Sealing Wax
 E. None of the above


15.
Select all of the following tools with which you have experience.
 A. Sharpening Stones/whetstones
 B. Emery paper
 C. Polishing compound
 D. Magnifying loupe
 E. None of the above


16.
Select all of the following equipment with which you have experience.
 A. Computers
 B. Printing presses
 C. Laser
 D. None of the above


17.
Select all of the following equipment with which you have experience.
 A. Ruling machine
 B. Wacom tablets Digital Stylus
 C. 3D imagery/digital printers
 D. None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙