Position Title
Engineering Equipment Operator Leader
Agency
U.S. Army Joint Munitions Command
Announcement Number
MCGL-26-12820893-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 22, 2025 to Wednesday, November 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
1.
This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 Yes
 No


2.
The duties of this position meet the criteria for compliance with Federal and Department of the Army Drug Free Workplace Programs. Detection of the presence of drugs is warranted. This position is subject to a pre-employment screening, and random testing thereafter, to include testing based on reasonable suspicion and testing due to direct involvement with an on-duty accident. Are you willing to refrain from the use of illegal drugs and submit to a pre-employment drug screening and random testing thereafter to obtain and maintain employment in this position?
 Yes
 No


This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


3.
Must possess and retain a Class "B" Commercial Driver's License (CDL) upon appointment. Do you possess a Class "B" Commercial Driver's License (CDL) and are you willing to retain it at your own expense?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Engineering Equipment Operator Leader position with the Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Engineering Equipment Operator Leader duties without more than normal supervision.

 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Engineering Equipment Operator Leader duties. I am skilled in passing on instructions and demonstrating work methods, and working with others; Following established procedures, policies, and other directives; Assisting other equipment operators or trainees and provide information to the supervisor on status and progress of work; Operating a variety of heavy equipment to push, pull, pile, or load materials; Setting work pace for the crew, and ensuring all required paperwork are completed correctly and submitted timely. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of Engineering Equipment Operator Leader duties. I am skilled in demonstrating work methods; Following established procedures, policies, and other directives; Assisting lower graded equipment operators or trainees; Operating a variety of heavy equipment to push, pull, pile, or load materials; and ensuring all required paperwork are completed correctly and submitted timely. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common Engineering Equipment Operator Leader duties. I can operate a variety of heavy equipment; I can communicate with other employees, such as relaying instructions from a supervisor. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple Engineering Equipment Operator Leader duties, or I have received training on the proper usage of an eye level and rod to determine the different elevations in grade.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙