Position Title
TRAINING TECHNICIAN (Title 32)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TX-12703947-AF Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, June 23, 2025 to Monday, July 7, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1. Are you a current member of the state National Guard for which this position is being advertised, or are you willing and eligible to become a member?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. For positions requiring the operation of motor vehicles, candidates must have a valid state driver's license for the state in which they live or are principally employed. Do you meet this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. To qualify at the GS-09 grade level, your resume must include relevant experience with beginning and ending dates of employment/experience reflecting at least 1 year equivalent to at least next lower grade level (GS-07) with knowledge of Air Force or Army education and training programs regarding their principles and procedures. Experience in performing interviews and counseling techniques; training techniques and instruction methods; task analysis procedures, learning processes, curriculum development, training evaluations, and education and training systems and products; effective writing skills; editing practices; instructional media application, training reporting, program and curriculum validation, and implementation procedures. Experience in scheduling training events and facilities; supporting assistance visits and training meetings; or assisting in work center and individual job qualification standard development; education institution registration requirements; and military personnel classification system and policies. Experience in the capabilities of communicative interpersonal skill applications and distance learning concepts. Experience as a participant and presenter during training and military or civilian conference events.
 A. Yes, I do meet the qualification requirements listed above.
 B. No, I do not meet the qualifications.
2. What is your current Federal Technician or Military status? Please make an appropriate choice.
 A. I am currently a Permanent, Indefinite, or Temporary Federal Technician with the Texas Air National Guard.
 B. I am currently a traditional member of the Texas Air National Guard.
 C. I am a current military or prior member eligible to become a Texas Air National Guard member.
 D. I am a civilian with no prior military experience.
3. Are you a E-4 (SrA) not to exceed E-6/(TSgt)? Members of another branch of service, or prior service members should ensure they are eligible and willing to join the Texas Air National Guard in the rank E-4 (SrA) not to exceed E-6/(TSgt). Civilians without prior service should respond "No".
 A. Yes, I am a E-4 (SrA) not to exceed E-6/(TSgt).
 B. No, I am not a E-4 (SrA) not to exceed E-6/(TSgt)
4. Do you currently possess one of the following primary or secondary Compatible Military Assignments? Or are you eligible and able to complete the AFSC qualifications and requirements to fall within the listed Compatible Military Assignment by the date of your appointment?
AFSC: 3F2X1
 A. Yes
 B. No
4a. Please type your current rank and AFSC in the space provided below. If you are a member of another branch of service, please include your branch, rank and military specialty. Prior service members should include their last rank held and military specialty. Civilians should type "N/A".
 
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. Do you currently have a Secret security clearance? -OR- Are you eligible to obtain a Secret clearance within one year of appointment?

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Your responses in this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency, if selected. Review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses for accuracy, and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected