Position Title
Medical Technician
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSU-12780275-25-ML Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 10, 2025 to Friday, February 6, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Medical Laboratory Technician position with the Veterans Health Administration. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.
Basic requirements:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Citizenship: Citizen of the United States. (Noncitizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3g, this part.)

Are you a citizen if the United States?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. English Language Proficiency: Per VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Chapter 3, Section A, Paragraph 3j: No person will be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C., chapter 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA who is not proficient in written and spoken English.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Basic Education. Candidates must meet the applicable educational requirements for certification.

AMT
Eligibility Requirements
Applicant shall have graduated with an associate degree in medical laboratory technician (or equivalent) within the past five years from a program or institution accredited by a recognized regional or national accreditation agency.*
Acceptable programs must include clinical rotation through the following sections of the laboratory: Blood Banking, Microbiology, Chemistry, and Hematology
A minimum of six months of approved clinical laboratory experience within the last five years is required for individuals who either:
Graduated more than five years ago OR
Graduated from a program that does NOT include an experiential component (experience must include a clinical rotation through the abovementioned sections of the laboratory)
*Program or institution must be accredited by either the National Accrediting Agency for Clinical Laboratory Sciences (NAACLS) or another regional or national accreditation agency approved by the US Department of Education (DOE), the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA), or otherwise approved by AMT. 

ASCP
Eligibility Requirements
There are several ways applicants can be eligible for the Medical Laboratory Technician Certification, including:
Applicants must have an associate degree in medical laboratory technology.
Candidates must have completed 60 semester hours within the last two years, including 25 hours of work related to laboratory sciences, AND completed at least 6 months of clinical laboratory experience in the blood bank, microbiology, or chemistry laboratories.
Applicants who have completed a 50-week medical laboratory training program sponsored by the US military.
Applicants must have previously taken and passed a generalist MLT examination that a certification group or licensure organization provided. An applicant must also have an active state license or certification and meet employment and education requirements.
Once a candidate is deemed eligible, they can apply and pay an application fee.If a candidate does not pass the exam and wants to retest, they must wait at least 45 days after the initial test. A non-refundable fee of $125 is required. Applicants are limited to 4 exam attempts for certification. 

AAB
To be certified as MLT(AAB), an individual must be a high school graduate, or equivalent and meet one (1) of the following requirements:

Route 1 
Complete a clinical laboratory training program approved or accredited by an organization approved by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS)
and Pass the MLT(AAB) Generalist examination.

Route 2 
Earn an associate degree (or the equivalent) in laboratory science, or medical laboratory technology, from an accredited institution. The equivalent of an associate degree is defined as sixty (60) semester hours, of which twenty-four (24) semester hours are either:
a) medical laboratory technology courses (i.e., chemistry, hematology, immunohematology, immunology, microbiology)
or
b) six (6) semester hours of chemistry; six (6) semester hours of biology; and twelve (12) semester hours of courses in chemistry, biology or medical laboratory technology in any combination
and Pass the MLT(AAB) Generalist examination.

Route 3 
Successfully complete an official U.S. military medical laboratory procedures course of at least fifty (50) weeks duration and earn the military enlisted occupational specialty of Medical Laboratory Specialist (Laboratory Technician)
and Pass the MLT(AAB) Generalist examination.

Please select the appropriate answer below that fits your education requirements.
 A. Yes, I have the education required for the AMT certification and would therefore qualify under the exemption.
 B. Yes, I have the education required for the ASCP certification and would therefore qualify under the exemption.
 C. Yes, I have ONE of the three possible education required for the AAB certification and would therefore qualify under the exemption.
 D. Yes, I have one of the required certifications and will provide proof of certification.
 E. No, I do not have any of the certifications or education exemptions listed and therefore would not qualify for the position
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. Certification: Candidates must currently possess one of the appropriate certifications as an MLT granted by the following organizations.

American Society of Clinical Pathology (ASCP) i ASCP, Board of Certification. OR ii ASCP, Board of Registry.
American Medical Technologists.
American Association of Bioanalysts.

Exception: Non-certified applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for certification may receive a temporary appointment up to the full performance level not to exceed two years as a graduate MLT under the authority of 38 U.S.C. ? 7405(c)(2) without the option to extend. For grade levels above full performance level, the candidate must be certified in accordance with paragraph 4.c.(1) above.

Do you have a certification from one of the above organizations or meet the exception and have the basic education requirements listed in the question above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Grade Specific Requirements:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. GS-06 Requirement:
Experience: In addition to the basic requirements, candidates must possess one year of experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level.

Do you meet the experience requirement as described above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. GS-06 Requirement:
Knowledge, Skills and Abilities: In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:

Knowledge of MLT principles, practices, concepts and theories for sound independent work.
Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance procedures to manage reagents and supply inventories using document control systems.
Ability to maintain, troubleshoot and repair instrumentation.
Ability to work as a team member in a laboratory setting to effectively complete assignments.
Ability to use technical judgment to interpret laboratory results.
Ability to apply complex written laboratory instructions.
Ability to consult with other members of the health care team, patients and external customers.

Do you meet the KSA requirements as described above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
 
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.
 
Please Note:  Until the closing date of the announcement, you can update or edit your package.  However, once your application package is submitted and the announcement period closes, we are unable to add documentation or alter your responses.  By submitting your package for consideration, you are attesting that your application package is complete and accurate.
 
SF-50 REMINDER - If you are a current federal employee, or a former employee with reinstatement rights, you MUST submit a copy of your most recent SF-50 or your separation/resignation SF-50. This SF-50 needs to show your current or last grade, step, wage, and title. Do not submit a bonus or award SF-50. The preferred SF-50s would be; a promotion, General wage adjudication, Step-progression, or a Separation SF-50. Your federal employment status cannot be verified without this document and you will be disqualified for not meeting the area of consideration if you do not provide the documentation.
 
CERTIFICATION AND TRANSCRIPTS- Please provide a copy of official transcripts and certification to demonstrate you meet the basic requirements of the position posted. For your transcripts, be sure your name, name of the school attended, dates attended, classes taken with grades listed and credits awarded, name of degree conferred, (if applicable) is stated on the transcript.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected