Position Title
Management Analyst
Agency
Office of the Secretary of Defense
Announcement Number
OUSDAS-25-12797168-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 17, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Assessment 1
Thank you for applying to the Management Analyst (Deputy Director, Nuclear Forensics, Energy, and Survivability), NH-0343-04 position with the Office of the Secretary of Defense for Acquisition & Sustainment (OUSD (A&S)).
1. Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Management Analyst (Deputy Director, Nuclear Forensics, Energy, and Survivability), at the NH-0343-04 (GS-14/15) grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector.
 A. I have one year of experience in the same or similar work equivalent to at least the next lower grade level NH-03 (GS-13 equivalent) requiring application of the knowledge, skills, and abilities of the position being filled. Candidates for this position must clearly demonstrate in their resume that they possess the following specialized experience: Interacting with a wide variety of DoD and NNSA components, interagency and private sector partners, and foreign government partners. Briefing senior levels of the U.S. government and preparing them for public and Congressional engagements. Understanding of U.S nuclear weapons systems, strategic deterrence policies, and interagency relationships. Evaluating legislative language and providing recommendations to superiors. (Experience must be reflected in resume)
 B. My experience is not reflected in the above statement.
This position has Conditions of Employment that must be obtained prior to your start date and maintained for the duration of this employment.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. This position may require you to pass screening for illegal drug use prior to appointment and subsequent periodic drug screening thereafter. Are you willing to meet the drug testing requirements?

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This position will require you to obtain and maintain a Special Sensitive (TS/SCI) security clearance. Are you willing to meet the security clearance requirements?

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. This position may require travel away from your normal duty station on military or commercial aircraft. Are you willing to meet the travel requirements?

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. This position requires a Program Management Practitioner DAWIA (Back to Basics) acquisition certification. You will have 60 months to achieve this certification. Are you willing to obtain this certification if you do not already have it?

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Selectee must execute, as a condition of appointment, a written agreement to remain in Federal service in the position for at least three years. In signing such agreement, the employee does not forfeit any employment rights, nor does such an agreement alter any other terms or conditions of employment. This Critical Acquisition Position (CAP) requires certification in the acquisition functional area of Program Management. Are you willing to sign a Service Agreement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected