Position Title
ATTORNEY-ADVISER (GENERAL) (TITLE 32)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-12804767-AF-25-021A Opens in new window
Open Period
Saturday, October 18, 2025 to Monday, November 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required. 

 Yes
 No


2.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 Yes
 No


Military Requirements
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCANG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCANG military membership) working at (145th AW) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCANG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCANG military membership) working at a NC ANG unit/activity, other than (145th AW) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC Air National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently assigned to one of the following: Active Duty Air Force, Air Force Reserve, or a State/Territory Air National Guard other than North Carolina.
 I am not currently assigned to one of the areas listed above.


2.
Are you currently assigned militarily as an Officer (Cpt to Lt Col)?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.   
 


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-0905-13 Attorney-Advisor
 I HAVE at least 24 months experience as a professional Attorney Advisor 1) in providing legal interpretation and guidance to managers and senior leaders on 10 United States Code, and the state equivalent to the federal Uniform Code of Military Justice, 2) in conducting legal research in connection with cases pending administrative hearings, trials before courts of original jurisdiction, or arguments in appellate courts, 3) in addressing questions regarding the effects of provisions of proposed legislation or proposed changes in agency policies or regulations, 4) in researching and providing legal advice in all functional areas of Administrative, Labor, Medical and Physical Disability, and Ethics Law
 I HAVE experience and/or education (from an accredited university) to meet the overall specialized experience
 I DO NOT have at least 12 months of the experience, education or training listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙