Position Title
Supervisory Criminal Investigator (Deputy Chief, Field Management Staff)
Agency
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives
Announcement Number
25-FO-MP-12783293-ADB Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 5, 2025 to Friday, September 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND you:
have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more; OR
are retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. You must also submit the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. (1) Are you the spouse of an active duty member of the Armed Forces?

-OR-

(2) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating of 100 percent at the time of retirement or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?

-OR-

(3) Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility for option 1 identified above, you must submit a copy of your spouse's active military orders and documentation verifying marriage, for example a marriage certificate.

To verify your eligibility for options 2 and 3 identified above, you must submit the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15 and all supporting documentation identified on that document (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; death certificate and documentation identifying marital status at the time of death; disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service, etc.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy; and
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; and
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency and you have never held the grade or full performance level of this position?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Promotion, Within Grade Increase (i.e. WGI), or Appointment/Conversion SF-50, which shows you were in the competitive service and the highest grade or promotion potential held. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
Highest grade or promotion potential held.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Were you formerly employed as a Federal civilian employee on a permanent competitive appointment or did you obtain career-conditional status (and are within 3 years of the date of separation or are a preference eligible)?

OR

Are you currently employed as a permanent Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service?

To verify your eligibility as a current or former Federal civilian employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions. You may need to submit more than one SF-50. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must also reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND
status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Are you a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who:
was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; AND,
served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; AND,
performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; AND,
if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing.
To verify your eligibility, you must provide a copy of all Notification of Personnel Actions, Standard Form 50s (SF-50) and performance appraisals that demonstrates you meet all the requirements outlined in the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act.

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months?

-OR-

Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and is requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student or other experience related to this position?

-OR-

Are you a current or former Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your description of service or other proof of non-competitive eligibility. If you are a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who is requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility, please also provide the necessary documentation to support your request.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you currently employed as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and you have held a position at the same or higher grade level as this position with the same or higher promotion potential?

OR

Were you formerly employed as a Federal civilian employee on a permanent competitive appointment or have you obtained career-conditional status (and are within 3 years of the date of separation or are a preference eligible) and have you held the same or higher grade as this position with the same or higher promotion potential?

To verify your eligibility as a current or former Federal civilian employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions. You may need to submit more than one SF-50.Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must also reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND
status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management?
 
For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems. 

-OR-

Are you a current:
Postal Career Service Employee;
Postal Rate Commission Employee;
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; or,
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee? 
-OR-

Are you eligible under another Miscellaneous Authority Not Regulated by U.S. Office of Personnel Management?

For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) and/or other documentation reflecting your status and eligibility.

 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist showing proof of intellectual, severe physical, or psychiatric disability.
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (Note: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
are entitled to veterans' preference?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Justice (DOJ). Your response to this assessment questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making screening decisions. This is a DOJ job application system. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this application. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration.
1. You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-14) in the federal service that has equipped you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position. Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 A. I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the next lower grade level (GS-14): Implementing and evaluating policies and procedures affecting field operations; AND Supporting major investigations that exceed the resources of individual field divisions; AND Reviewing criminal investigation case files and provides guidance and operational criminal investigative recommendations to support specific criminal investigations; AND Providing technical and administrative guidance on short- and long-range strategic plans.
 B. I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the next lower grade level as described above.
2. Choose the below statement that best describes how you resolve conflicts within your office.
 A. I attempt to gather the personnel involved, facilitate discussion to Clear the air and clarify positions, then seek common ground among the dissenting person(s).
 B. I meet with and gather information from the personnel involved, and if appropriate, I modify my position, thereby diffusing tension
 C. I modify my position to include the other person’s opinions and ideas, or persuade them to accept my ideas and options, thereby diffusing tension.
 D. I dictate and clarify policy, chain of command, and my expectations of compliance.
 E. I avoid difficult or contentious conversations with the antagonist and allow the tension to diffuse over time.
 F. I have no experience in this area.
3. Choose the statements that best describes your ability to foster an inclusive workplace where diversity and inclusion are valued and leveraged to achieve the mission of the group. (Check all that apply)
 A. I have successfully avoided and/or effectively managed EEO complaints and grievances and/or worked with the Ombuds Office and/or Office of Chief Counsel on management and employee relations issues.
 B. I supervise and foster an inclusive workplace by thoughtfully developing diverse teams when making investigative assignments/operations (e.g. undercover, surveillance, interview).
 C. When budget and/or mission requirements permit, I regularly attend diversity events and approve my subordinates to participate in these events as well (diversity conferences, celebrations, presentations).
 D. I have not performed any of the above tasks.
4. Select all of the statements that best describe steps you have taken when implementing change in your office. (Check all that apply)
 A. I communicate the vision clearly and link the steps in the process to the overall vision.
 B. I create a sense of urgency to help spark the initial motivation to get things moving.
 C. I convince people that change is necessary and build coalitions with key individuals.
 D. I create and identify short term “wins” in route to the overall vision to keep the team motivated and focused.
 E. I have not implemented any changes.
5. Choose all the statements that best describe your highest level of building coalitions and communications (i.e. modeling professionalism; resolving differences of opinion; sharing information; developing rapport; considering factors in organizational and situational realities (internal and external) when determining how best to advance or achieve organizational objectives. (Check all that apply).
 A. I have effectively represented my organization internally through networking and communications to advance the organizations mission in order to ensure accomplishments of the organization’s goals and mission.
 B. I have worked with my Division PIO and HQ Legislative Affairs personnel to meet with Congressional leaders and media representatives within my area of responsibility to convey ATF’s accomplishments within their districts.
 C. I have interacted with Federal, State and local officials in handling complex investigative activities for successful investigations and prosecution of cases.
 D. I have no experience in this area.
6. Choose the statement that best describes your experience navigating office and agency politics.
 A. I’m consistently building my network of government and private sector relationships in order to stay engaged and connect with key players who can advance our agency’s mission.
 B. I maintain positive relationships with my superiors and other agency decision-makers to increase my awareness of internal politics and to use their influence to win support for my ideas.
 C. I’ve always valued hard-work and perseverance and tried my best to avoid office and agency politics.
 D. I have no experience in this area.
7. Choose all the statements that best describe your experience in leading a multi-agency investigation. (Check all that apply)
 A. I have met with participating law enforcement agencies of a multi-agency investigation to discuss the jurisdiction and organizational conflicts that arise during the course of the investigation.
 B. I have meet with prosecutors (Federal and State) on multi-agency investigations to discuss the jurisdictional issues and procedural processes during the course of the investigation.
 C. I have met with other Federal agencies of multi-agency investigations to discuss the investigative techniques/tactics and prosecution issues during the course of the investigation.
 D. I have not performed any of the above tasks.
8. Choose the below statements that best describe your understanding of technology or technological support in furthering our agency's mission: (Check all that apply)
 A. Through liaison with other agencies, I routinely identify and adopt their data mining practices and computer intelligence programs/databases, for use within ATF.
 B. I encourage all of the law enforcement agencies within my area of responsibility to trace all of their recovered crime and guns and submit firearms/casings evidence for IBIS testing.
 C. I ensure that my employees are proficient with all internal ATF databases, and that they embrace the use of intelligence and technology to guide them in our investigations.
 D. I have insisted that groups and personnel under my supervision adhere to the newest policies and requirements for ATF’s intelligence-Led Policing program, such as the use of multi-agency information sharing and deconfliction systems.
 E. I have sought out products, applications or other technology for ATF to consider for use to support our mission.
 F. I have volunteered to provide input and feedback in ATF efforts to upgrade major systems, such as NForce, BATS, Analysts Notebook, etc, or saw to it that my employees were detailed to those efforts to represent my division’s interest.
 G. I ensure that my employees are proficient with all internal ATF databases, such as N-Force, eTrace and BATS, and that they embrace the use of intelligence and technology to guide them in our investigations.
 H. I have not performed any of the above tasks.
9. Choose the statements that best describe your ability to strategically manage personnel resources. (Check all that apply)
 A. I effectively manage my workforce based on organizational goals, priorities, staffing and budgets.
 B. I consistently ensure that employees are appropriately recruited, selected, trained, supervised, appraised and rewarded as well as address performance problems.
 C. I have been responsible for the assignment / reassignment of personnel to teams in an effort to meet changing workloads and needs of the teams.
 D. I identify employee relations problems and have acted to transfer employees to address them. I identify employee relations problems and have acted to transfer employees to address them.
 E. None of the above.
10. Select the one answer choice that best describes your skill in being results driven (i.e. making timely decisions and producing results through strategic planning, performance measurements, and implementing and evaluating programs and policies).
 A. I have no experience in this area.
 B. I have personally developed short-and long-term goals that were applied in furthering investigative activities.
 C. I have assisted in formulating short- and long-term goals that were incorporated into strategic program plans to further investigative activities.
 D. I have experience in formulating strategic program plans that assesses investigative feasibility and developing realistic short- and long-term goals; setting investigative standards, and ensuring accountability for achieving standards.
11. Choose the statement that best describes your ability to develop and implement enforcement strategies within your area of responsibility.
 A. I have developed objectives and priorities for my office, consistent with my Frontline Domain Assessment, and communicate reasonable performance measures to my employees to gauge our effectiveness.
 B. I have interacted with external agencies in an effort to diagnose crime trends, negotiate for resources, and develop/implement solutions to local and bureau-wide issues.
 C. I have participated in Bureau wide efforts, such as reviewing and providing feedback on proposed Orders and Briefs, and relay that information to my employees
 D. I have no experience in this area.
12. Choose the below statement that best describes your skill and experience in solving problems.
 A. When diagnosing problems, I start by gathering sufficient information and then engaging with my employees to gain their insight, while developing possible solutions and monitoring the implementation.
 B. I’ll assign ownership of certain problems to specific employees, to allow them the opportunity to research and develop solutions, and to grow from the experience.
 C. When I encounter problems, I seek input from my supervisor to develop a solution.
 D. I have limited experience in this area.
13. Select all of the following statements that apply to the way you deal with personal mistakes. (Check all that apply)
 A. I admit my mistakes, accept responsibility, and implement/share the lessons learned.
 B. I reflect on the circumstances and look for lessons learned for myself and others.
 C. I determine if there was any negative impact, try to address it, then move on.
 D. I ensure that my reputation is intact and decide if anyone else needs to know.
14. Choose the statement below that best describes how you inspire employees and facilitate a cohesive team environment.
 A. I encourage the open expression of opinions and involve my employees in the decision making process.
 B. I set the tone for a positive work environment by displaying a committed, enthusiastic, and professional demeanor
 C. I focus on my employee’s strengths, not weaknesses, and recognize them when they achieve their goals.
 D. After establishing clear, attainable objectives and performance measures, I then allow my employees the opportunity to exercise creativity in achieving those goals.
 E. I have no experience in this area.
15. Choose the statement that best represents the your knowledge and execution of personnel programs, policies and procedures.
 A. I have no experience in this area.
 B. I have extensive experience in dealing with personnel programs, policies and procedures (e.g. disciplinary/performance issues, interview panels, award recognition, office inspections, etc.).
 C. I have a good general working knowledge of personnel programs, policies and procedures
 D. I am very familiar with, and I know who to contact in Headquarters to assist in these matters.
16. Select the choice that best describes your experience in reporting to higher-level officials on case status and/or problems requiring resolution.
 A. I have no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have reported primarily to my immediate and second-level supervisors, either formally or informally, on case status and/or problems requiring resolution.
 C. I have given informal or formal briefings to SES officials in the organization on case status and/or problems requiring resolution.
 D. I have given formal written reports and oral briefings to SES level officials both within and outside my organization regarding case status and/or problems requiring resolution.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
17. Do any of your relatives work for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives? Include: father; mother; husband; wife; son; daughter; brother; sister; uncle; aunt; first cousin; nephew; niece; father-in-law; mother-in-law; son-in-law; daughter-in-law; brother-in-law; sister-in-law; stepfather; stepmother; stepson; stepdaughter; stepbrother; stepsister; half-brother; and half-sister.
 A. Yes
 B. No
18. The Department of Justice requires that you provide proof that for 3 out of the last 5 years you have resided in the United States, worked for the United States in a foreign country in a Federal or U.S. military capacity for 3 out of the last 5 years, and/or been a dependent of a Federal or U.S. military employee in a foreign country for 3 out of the last 5 years. Are you able to provide sufficient documentation to meet this residency requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
19. ATF employment is contingent upon a favorable adjudication (decision) of your background investigation. Your conduct and character must demonstrate suitability for the position for which you are applying. Unresolved matters may prevent completion of your background investigation or favorable adjudication of it. If ATF cannot complete your background investigation and adjudicate it, you will be removed from the hiring process. Are you willing to submit to the background investigation process?
 A. Yes
 B. No
20. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected