Position Title
Computer Scientist/Computer Engineer-Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-1550085403-12784937-BH Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 18, 2025 to Wednesday, September 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0854 - Computer Engineering
 B. 1550 - Computer Science
Assessment 1
This section is used to determine if you meet the minimum education requirement for a Computer Engineer, OR Computer Scientist position. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THIS QUESTION WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING.
1. From the descriptions below, select the letter corresponding to the statement that best represents your level of education/experience the for the Computer Engineer position. YOUR TRANSCRIPTS AND RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSE YOU SELECT.
 A. I have a bachelor degree in professional Engineering from a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum.
 B. I have a bachelor degree in professional Engineering which included differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics.
 C. I have a combination of education and experience - college level education, training, and/or technical experience which includes evidence of having successfully passed the Engineer-in-Training (EIT) examination, or the test for professional registration, which is administered by the Boards of Engineering.
 D. I have a combination of education and experience - college level education, training, and/or technical experience which includes 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and in engineering that included the courses noted in the basic qualifications of the announcement.
 E. I have a combination of education and experience - college level education, training, and/or technical experience which includes successful completion of curriculum leading to a bachelor`s degree in engineering technology or in an appropriate professional field may be accepted in lieu of a degree in engineering, provided that the applicant has had 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance.
 F. I have a combination of education and experience - college level education, training, and/or technical experience which includes current registration as a professional engineer by any State, District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico.
 G. I do not meet the education or experience requirements as described.
2. From the descriptions below, select the letter corresponding to the statement that best represents your level of education/experience for the Computer Scientist postion. YOUR TRANSCRIPTS AND RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSE YOU SELECT.
 A. I have a bachelor degree in computer science or bachelor degree with 30 semester hours in a combination of mathematics, statistics, and computer science. At least 15 of the 30 semester hours include any combination of statistics and mathematics that included differential and integral calculus. All academic degrees and course work must be from accredited or pre-accredited institutions.
 B. I do not meet the education requirement for the computer science series.
3. All applicants must meet the specialized experience requirement of at least 52 weeks of specialized experience at the next lower broadband NH-02, equivalent to next lower grade (GS-11) in Federal service or equivalent in other pay systems.

Specialized experience includes expert knowledge of full software development lifecycle, encompassing analysis, design, development, implementation, testing, and maintenance of complex software systems; proven ability to analyze intricate technical data, prioritize requirements, and develop innovative solutions to theoretical and practical data processing challenges; being a skilled negotiator and communicator, effectively conveying complex technical information orally and in writing to senior military, civilian government officials, and private industry stakeholders.

From the descriptions below, select the letter corresponding to the statement that best represents your level of education/experience. YOUR TRANSCRIPTS AND RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSE YOU SELECT.
 A. I have experience that includes expert knowledge of full software development lifecycle, encompassing analysis, design, development, implementation, testing, and maintenance of complex software systems; proven ability to analyze intricate technical data, prioritize requirements, and develop innovative solutions to theoretical and practical data processing challenges; being a skilled negotiator and communicator, effectively conveying complex technical information orally and in writing to senior military, civilian government officials, and private industry stakeholders.
 B. I do not have the experience as reflected above.
4. Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my response to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected