Position Title
Electronics Technician
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
NWS-25-12770745-ST Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, July 25, 2025 to Friday, August 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and 
You have not yet been separated. 
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?

If Yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:

This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current/former employee of a Federal agency under an Interchange agreement or other similar authority?
For additional information on interchange agreements and similar authorities, click here.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current or former Federal employee of a Land Management Agency that meets the eligibility requirements listed below?  Land Management agencies include the Forest Service, the Bureau of Land Management, the National Park Service, the Fish and Wildlife Service, the Bureau of Indian Affairs, and the Bureau of Reclamation. 
Must have been initially hired into a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; and
Must have served under one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; and
Must have performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; and
If no longer employed by the land management agency, must have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Do you meet any of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former Federal civilian employee that served on a permanent career competitive appointment AND have held the same grade level as the full performance of the position being announced or higher, with the same or higher promotion potential.
I have obtained career-conditional status (within 3 years of the date of separation or am a preference eligible) AND have held the same grade level as the full performance of the position being announced or higher, with the same or higher promotion potential.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. If you are NOT currently serving in the competitive service as a permanent career or career-conditional Federal employee, are you eligible for reinstatement based on career or career-conditional Federal status in the competitive service?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Do you meet any of the following eligibilities?
I am a current Federal employee with a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service AND the highest grade level I have held on a permanent basis is lower than the full performance level of the position being announced.
I am a former Federal employee who held a permanent career appointment in the competitive service AND the highest grade level I have held on a permanent basis is lower than the full performance level of the position being announced.
I am a former Federal employee who obtained career-conditional status (within 3 years of the date of separation or am a preference eligible) AND the highest grade level I have held on a permanent basis is lower than the full performance level of the position being announced.
To verify your eligibility as a current or former Federal civilian employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status.  If you were career-conditional and resigned, you will need to submit your resignation SF-50.  You may need to submit more than one SF-50.  SF-50 block 34, Position Occupied reflects "1" and block 24, Tenure reflects "1" or "2".
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you the spouse of an active-duty member of the Armed Forces eligible under E.O. 13832 and P.L. 115-232: The spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active-duty OR the spouse of a retired/separated member of the Armed Forces with a disability rating of 100% from the Department of Veteran Affairs OR the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active-duty status?

If you indicate Yes for this question, you MUST submit the following:
Verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage), AND
If based on member's Active-Duty status: proof of active-duty status, i.e. spouse's Permanent Change of Station (PCS) or Active-Duty military orders, or official documentation from the Armed Forces branch that verifies spouse's active status.
If based on member's 100% disability:  verification of the member's retirement or release/discharge from active duty AND verification of 100% service-connected disability (DD-214 and/or VA Letter, https://www.va.gov/records/download-va-letters/.
If based on member's death: verification of the member's death while on active-duty (DD-1300).
For more information, review FedsHireVets.gov.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you a current or former employee of one of the Federal agencies listed below who is eligible for non-competitive consideration?
Postal Career Service Employee
Postal Rate Commission Employee
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you a veteran separated under honorable conditions who has a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more?  This includes: 
Veterans who retired from active military service with a disability rating of 30% or more; or
Veterans rated by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) since 1991 or later to include disability determinations from a branch of the Armed Forces at any time, as having a compensable service-connected disability of 30 % or more.
Note: You will be required to provide supporting documentation. Please refer to the vacancy announcement for information on submitting documentation.

 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you eligible for noncompetitive consideration under a hiring authority not otherwise listed?
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member, or a current or former Peace Corps employee who meets one of the requirements described below for noncompetitive eligibility?
Former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months. *OR*
Former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and are requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student, or other experience related to this position. *OR*
Current Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service without a break in service of 3 days or more.  *OR*
Former Peace Corps employee who completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years.   
 A. Yes
 B. No
14. In the last five (5) years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee?  (To verify, check your Standard Form 50, section 5). 
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFT 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 A. Yes
 B. No
15. Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric, or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability Appointment for which you can provide appropriate documentation issued by a licensed medical professional; a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist; or any Federal agency, State agency, or an agency of the District of Columbia or a U.S. territory that issues or provides disability benefits?
 A. Yes
 B. No
16. Are you a veteran separated under honorable conditions who meets one of the eligibility requirements listed below for a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA)?  NOTE:  VRA is limited to positions at the GS-11 level or below.
Disabled veteran; or
Veteran who served on active duty in the Armed Forces during a war, or in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge has been authorized; or
Veteran who, while serving on active duty in the Armed Forces, participated in a United States military operation for which an Armed Forces Service Medal was awarded; or
Recently separated veteran (i.e., within the past 3 years)
 A. Yes
 B. No
17. Are you eligible under the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA)? This includes veterans whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND either served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military OR are entitled to veterans' preference.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Anchorage, AK
 B. Honolulu, HI
 C. Lihue, HI
 D. San Juan, PR
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
8
9
10
11
Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. GS-08: Select the statement that best describes your experience performing the work of an Electronics Technician, GS-0856-08 or equivalent grade level in the Federal service:

 A. I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-07) in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Assisting in the maintenance of electronic systems and equipment.
 B. I do not possess the experience as described above.
2. GS-09: Select the statement that best describes your experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Electronics Technician, GS-0856-09 or equivalent grade level in the Federal service:

 A. I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-08) in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Assisting in operating and maintaining a wide range of electronic systems and equipment; and Assisting in the testing of field equipment.
 B. I have 2 full years of full-time graduate education or Master's degree in electrical engineering, electronics engineering, or electronics technology. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 C. I have a combination of education and experience as described above. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 D. I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.
3. GS-10: Select the statement that best describes your experience performing the work of an Electronics Technician, GS-0856-10 or equivalent grade level in the Federal service:

 A. I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-09) in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Assisting in installing, operating, and maintaining a wide range of electronic, electro-mechanical, data acquisition, communications equipment or computer systems; and Testing field equipment.
 B. I do not possess the experience as described above.
4. GS-11: Select the statement that best describes your experience performing the work of an Electronics Technician at the GS-11 or equivalent grade level in the Federal service:

 A. I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-10) in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Installing, operating, and maintaining a wide range of electronic, electro-mechanical, data acquisition, communications equipment or computer systems; and Planning and conducting testing of field equipment.
 B. I do not possess the experience as described above.
Assessment 2
1. What is the best first step in logical troubleshooting of a non-working RF system?

 A. Replace the antenna
 B. Replace the power supply
 C. Check power and ground at the radio
 D. Clean all connectors
 E. Swap transmitters
2. When performing a continuity test to chassis as part of verifying a proper system ground, what is the expected reading for an intact ground path?

 A. Infinite resistance (open circuit)
 B. A specific voltage reading (e.g., 120V AC)
 C. A very low resistance reading (near 0 ohms)
 D. A fluctuating resistance value
3. What is the primary objective of conducting field tests on electronic systems equipment?

 A. To verify system performance and reliability under actual operating conditions
 B. To demonstrate the equipment's features to potential buyers in a controlled showroom environment
 C. To determine the aesthetic appeal of the equipment in various outdoor settings
 D. To calculate the total cost of ownership for the equipment over its lifespan
4. Which of the following are considered precision tools commonly used by electronics technicians? Select all that apply:

 A. Multimeter
 B. Oscilloscope
 C. Hammer
 D. Soldering Iron
5. Which of the following tasks are typically involved in preventive maintenance for field electronics? Select all that apply:
 A. Cleaning connectors
 B. Checking voltages
 C. Testing grounding points
 D. Reflowing all solder joints
 E. Replacing all chips annually
6. What piece of test equipment is most applicable to display and analyze
the waveforms of electrical signals?

 A. Digital Multimeter
 B. Oscilloscope
 C. Logic Analyzer
 D. RF Wattmeter
 E. Frequency Counter
7. Which of the following describes the nature of voltage in an electric field?

 A. It is directly proportional to the current flowing through a conductor
 B. It represents the total quantity or effect of the field through space
 C. It is the work needed per unit of charge to move a positive test charge between two points
 D. It is always constant regardless of the distance between two points
8. What is the primary purpose of calibration as a preventative maintenance task for electronic equipment?
 A. To remove dust and contaminants from circuit boards.
 B. To apply lubricants to moving parts to reduce friction.
 C. To adjust instruments and equipment to ensure accurate and consistent measurements.
 D. To replace components that have a known limited lifespan.
9. What is a simple way to describe the function of a capacitor in an electrical circuit?
 A. It acts like a switch to turn the circuit on or off.
 B. It stores electrical energy and releases it quickly.
 C. It increases the resistance of the circuit to control current flow.
 D. It converts electrical energy into light or heat.
10. What is the primary purpose of measuring Standing Wave Ratio (SWR) in an RF system?

 A. To determine the frequency range of operation
 B. To assess the efficiency of power transfer from the transmitter to the load
 C. To identify the type of modulation being used
 D. To measure the voltage and current at different points in the circuit
11. Which of the following is a common use of the Very High Frequency (VHF) band?

 A. Long-distance shortwave radio broadcasting
 B. Communication with submarines
 C. FM radio broadcasting
 D. Satellite communication
12. What does adjusting a component to the manufacturer's maximum attainable tolerance typically involve?

 A. Replacing the system software
 B. Ensuring output is within exact design specifications
 C. Adding external resistors to lower current flow
 D. Lowering input voltage below threshold
13. A workstation will not boot. What is the best first step in troubleshooting?
 A. Reset the CPU
 B. Replace the hard drive
 C. Check power cable and verify power to the system
 D. Reset the BIOS
 E. Remove the graphics card
14. Which of the following best describes proper maintenance of external computer peripherals like printers and modems?
 A. Resetting all devices every 30 days
 B. Cleaning connectors and verifying communication functions
 C. Running memory-intensive tests monthly
 D. Upgrading firmware during power-off states
15. When performing a diode test with a digital multimeter in diode test mode, what does an "OL" reading in both the forward and reverse bias directions typically indicate?
 A. A perfectly functioning diode with no voltage drop.
 B. A shorted diode allowing current flow in both directions.
 C. An opened diode that is not allowing current flow in either direction.
 D. A diode with a very high forward voltage drop.
16. During a detailed inspection of malfunctioning communications equipment, what is your primary objective?
 A. Document component serial numbers for the asset inventory
 B. Replace all components regardless of performance
 C. Identify the root cause and determine precise corrective action
 D. Wait for software patches to auto-install
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
17. I certify that I did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence tool (such as a large language model) to complete the responses above. To the best of my knowledge, all information provided in my application is true and accurate. I affirm that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration or termination of employment if hired.

I further certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement, reviewed my responses to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and understand the requirements regarding supporting documentation, including what must be submitted and applicable deadlines.

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected