Position Title
Telecommunications Specialist
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OIT-IMP-12801435-ART Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 22, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
11
12
2. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-9 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-9 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-9 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-11 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
3. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
5. This position requires the ability to operate a Government Owned Vehicle. Do you have a valid, non-restricted driver's license or will you be able to obtain a valid, non-restricted driver's license before the time of appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
7. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
8. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
9. Are you able to perform the physical demands of this position such as standing for long periods, walking over rough or uneven surfaces, crouching or crawling in small work areas, lifting or moving equipment in excess of 50 pounds, and climbing tall ladders, towers or other structures?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
The following questions will only be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following best describes your experience and/or education to qualify for the GS-11 grade level?

 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes maintaining telecommunication system performance through use of established tools and instructions; installing, configuring, troubleshooting, repairing, maintaining and operational testing of telecommunications systems including, but not limited to: voice communications, telecommunications, stationary and mobile video and radar surveillance systems, microwave systems, fiber optic equipment, wide area network (WAN), local area network (LAN), switched equipment, intrusion detection and access control systems; assisting with the installation of permanent and temporary tower related equipment, ie Antennas, transmission lines, emergency generators, RF/Wireline and AC polyphaser (lightening protection) grounding rods and other peripheral site equipment as required; and monitoring and alerting telecommunication managers regarding deterioration in system performance.
 B. I have successfully completed a Ph.D or an equivalent doctoral degree, three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or an LL.M degree from an accredited college or university. Major study must be in electrical or electronic engineering, mathematics, physics, public utilities, statistics, computer science, telecommunications management, information systems management, business administration, industrial management, or other fields related to the position. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 C. I have a combination of successfully completed graduate education and experience as described in A and B above, the total of which equals 100%. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 D. I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.
2. Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-12 grade level?

 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes inspecting newly installed telecommunication equipment for conformance to performance requirements; revolving telecommunications equipment failure or unsatisfactory performance problems; installing, configuring, troubleshooting, repairing, maintaining and operational testing of telecommunications systems including, but not limited to: voice communications, telecommunications, stationary and mobile video and radar surveillance systems, microwave systems, fiber optic equipment, wide area network (WAN), local area network (LAN), switched equipment, intrusion detection and access control systems; configuring and maintaining the telecommunications network to service applications such as intrusion detection systems, encrypted voice land/mobile radio communication systems, and the local area network (LAN); and overseeing the installation of permanent and temporary tower related equipment, ie Antennas, transmission lines, emergency generators, RF/Wireline and AC polyphaser (lightening protection) grounding rods and other peripheral site equipment as required.
 B. I do not possess the basic experience or education described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
3. Indicate the extent of your experience configuring and maintaining a telecommunications network to service law enforcement mission applications.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had limited experience configuring and maintaining a telecommunications network to service law enforcement mission applications.
 C. I have carried out all phases of configuring and maintaining a telecommunications network to service law enforcement mission applications.
 D. I have directed and overseen all phases of configuring and maintaining a telecommunications network to service law enforcement mission applications.
4. Indicate the extent of your experience maintaining proficiency in technological advancements and current rules and regulations through training programs and frequent review of manufacturer's publications and technical manuals.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had limited experience my maintaining proficiency in technological advancements and current rules and regulations through training programs and frequent review of manufacturer's publications and technical manuals.
 C. I have been responsible for maintaining my proficiency in technological advancements and current rules and regulations through training programs and frequent review of manufacturer's publications and technical manuals.
 D. I have extensive experience maintaining my proficiency in technological advancements and current rules and regulations through training programs and frequent review of manufacturer's publications and technical manuals.
5. Select the option that best describes your ability to plan and carry out assignments in conformance with accepted policies and practices.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had limited experience planning and carrying out assignments in conformance with accepted policies and practices.
 C. I have been responsible for all phases of planning and carrying out assignments in conformance with accepted policies and practices.
 D. I have extensive experience planning and carrying out assignments in conformance with accepted policies and practices.
6. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of operations and maintenance organization responsible for information technology, radio communications, and surveillance enforcement technology.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have basic understanding of operations and maintenance organization responsible for information technology, radio communications, and surveillance enforcement technology.
 C. I have a working knowledge of operations and maintenance organization responsible for information technology, radio communications, and surveillance enforcement technology.
 D. I have extensive knowledge of operations and maintenance organization responsible for information technology, radio communications, and surveillance enforcement technology.
7. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of voice communications systems, data communications systems, stationary and mobile video and radar surveillance, sensor intrusion systems, networks and facilities.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have basic understanding of voice communications systems, data communications systems, stationary and mobile video and radar surveillance, sensor intrusion systems, networks and facilities.
 C. I have a working knowledge of voice communications systems, data communications systems, stationary and mobile video and radar surveillance, sensor intrusion systems, networks and facilities.
 D. I have extensive knowledge of voice communications systems, data communications systems, stationary and mobile video and radar surveillance, sensor intrusion systems, networks and facilities.
8. Select the option that best describes your ability to carry out all phases of installation, configuration, troubleshooting, repair, maintenance and operational testing of telecommunications systems.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had limited experience carrying out all phases of installation, configuration, troubleshooting, repair, maintenance and operational testing of telecommunications systems.
 C. I have been responsible for all phases of carrying out all phases of installation, configuration, troubleshooting, repair, maintenance and operational testing of telecommunications systems.
 D. I have extensive experience carrying out all phases of installation, configuration, troubleshooting, repair, maintenance and operational testing of telecommunications systems.
9. Indicate the extent of your experience participating on joint agency task forces, committees and work groups assisting with project coordination, resolving common problems, and establishing and modifying joint procedures.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had limited experience participating on joint agency task forces, committees and work groups assisting with project coordination, resolving common problems, and establishing and modifying joint procedures.
 C. I have carried out all phases of work on joint agency task forces, committees and work groups including assisting with project coordination, resolving common problems, and establishing and modifying joint procedures.
 D. I have directed and overseen joint agency task forces, committees and work groups including project coordination, resolving common problems, and establishing and modifying joint procedures.
10. Indicate the extent of your experience monitoring vendor performance in fulfilling contractual requirements for equipment and services.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had limited experience monitoring vendor performance in fulfilling contractual requirements for equipment and services.
 C. I have been responsible for all phases of monitoring vendor performance in fulfilling contractual requirements for equipment and services.
 D. I have extensive experience monitoring vendor performance in fulfilling contractual requirements for equipment and services.
11. Indicate the extent of your experience overseeing the installation of towers, antennas, transmission lines, emergency generators, and equipment at sites.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had limited experience overseeing the installation of towers, antennas, transmission lines, emergency generators, and equipment at sites.
 C. I have carried out all phases of overseeing the installation of towers, antennas, transmission lines, emergency generators, and equipment at sites.
 D. I have extensive experience overseeing the installation of towers, antennas, transmission lines, emergency generators, and equipment at sites.
12. Indicate the extent of your experience configuring and maintaining mobile video and radar surveillance, sensor intrusion systems, networks and facilities to service law enforcement mission applications.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had limited experience configuring and maintaining mobile video and radar surveillance, sensor intrusion systems, networks and facilities to service law enforcement mission applications.
 C. I have carried out all phases of configuring and maintaining mobile video and radar surveillance, sensor intrusion systems, networks and facilities to service law enforcement mission applications.
 D. I have extensive experience configuring and maintaining mobile video and radar surveillance, sensor intrusion systems, networks and facilities to service law enforcement mission applications.
13. Indicate the extent of your experience configuring and maintaining radio, video, access control, systems networking, enforcement technologies, Public/Private Branch Exchange (PBX), and Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) services.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had limited experience configuring and maintaining radio, video, access control, systems networking, enforcement technologies, Public/Private Branch Exchange (PBX), and Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) services.
 C. I have carried out all phases of configuring and maintaining radio, video, access control, systems networking, enforcement technologies, Public/Private Branch Exchange (PBX), and Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) services.
 D. I have extensive experience configuring and maintaining radio, video, access control, systems networking, enforcement technologies, Public/Private Branch Exchange (PBX), and Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) services.
14. Indicate the extent of your experience overseeing the installation of sensor intrusion systems, networks and facilities, access control, enforcement technologies, Public/Private Branch Exchange (PBX), and Public Switched Telephone.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had limited experience overseeing the installation of sensor intrusion systems, networks and facilities, access control, enforcement technologies, Public/Private Branch Exchange (PBX), and Public Switched Telephone.
 C. I have been responsible for all phases of overseeing the installation of sensor intrusion systems, networks and facilities, access control, enforcement technologies, Public/Private Branch Exchange (PBX), and Public Switched Telephone.
 D. I have extensive experience overseeing the installation of sensor intrusion systems, networks and facilities, access control, enforcement technologies, Public/Private Branch Exchange (PBX), and Public Switched Telephone.
15. Indicate the extent of your experience assisting with feasibility studies of equipment and techniques for possible application to specific law enforcement functions.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had limited experience assisting with feasibility studies of equipment and techniques for possible application to specific law enforcement functions.
 C. I have carried out all phases of feasibility studies of equipment and techniques for possible application to specific law enforcement functions.
 D. I have directed and overseen feasibility studies of equipment and techniques for possible application to specific law enforcement functions.
16. Indicate the extent of your experience providing technical service advice to other agencies.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had limited experience providing technical service advice to other agencies.
 C. I have been responsible for providing technical service advice to other agencies.
 D. I have extensive experience providing technical service advice to other agencies.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected