Position Title
Mission Support Specialist
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
AMO-IMP-1278957-CCL Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 20, 2025 to Tuesday, August 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Doral, FL
 C. Homestead, FL
 D. Hammond, LA
 E. Houma, LA
2. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under non-temporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
4. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
5. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
6. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
Assessment 1
The following question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-13 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year od specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade that included: Applying analytical methods and techniques to issues concerning the implementation or efficiency/effectiveness of administrative programs (e.g., budget, procurement, personnel); Analyzing findings and recommending ways to resolve problems or improve work operations; Preparing papers/staff reports and providing advice to managers on administrative matters; and Projecting future and new expenses and requirements to complete annual budget requirements.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
2. Select each option that describes your experience in with Supporting staff travel.

 A. Prepared travel authorizations
 B. Made domestic travel reservations and arrangements
 C. Made foreign travel reservations and arrangements
 D. Prepared travel vouchers
 E. Reviewed travel vouchers for accuracy and completeness
 F. Resolved errors in travel vouchers submitted using automated voucher system(s)
 G. Reviewed travel reservations and arrangements which were prepared by subordinate administrative support personnel
 H. None of the above
3. Select the option that best describes your experience conducting studies/analyses of an organization to develop recommendations to improve efficiency, effectiveness, productivity, and/or economy.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
4. Select each option that describes your experience preparing and administrating a federal program budget.

 A. Developing procedures for the preparation of operating budget estimates
 B. Coordinating the preparation and/or collection of budget data
 C. Assuring that budget estimates are accompanied by justification documentation
 D. Monitoring expenses to determine the status of funds
 E. Analyzing program goals, initiatives, and/or other factors to determine the effect on existing and/or proposed budgets
 F. Providing guidance to staff concerning the availability of funds for anticipated obligations
 G. Developing plans for the reallocation of program funds to meet unexpected or changing priorities
 H. Assuring that funds are spent in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, and requirements
 I. None of the above
5. Select each option that describes your experience independently performing the following administrative tasks.

 A. Travel authorizations
 B. Review travel vouchers for accuracy and completeness
 C. Review automated time and attendance (payroll) documents
 D. Proofread agency documents for accuracy and completeness
 E. Review work performed for conformance to standards and procedures
 F. None of the above
6. Select the option that best describes your experience advising management on administrative policies and procedures.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
7. Select each option that describes your experience performing duties concerning the procurement of supplies for my employer.

 A. Prepared requisitions for the purchase of supplies
 B. Made purchases using an automated supply purchasing system
 C. Made purchases using standard purchase orders
 D. Made purchases using a government purchase card
 E. Reconciled purchase card statements to assure accuracy of charges
 F. Reviewed information from vendors to determine best product, source, and price
 G. Coordinated the purchase of supplies for a multi-office/multi-facility organization to maximize cost savings
 H. None of the above
8. Select each option that describes your experience performing procurement and management of personal property (furniture, equipment, motor vehicles, etc.) used by my employer.

 A. Participated in personal property needs assessments
 B. Prepared requisitions for personal property purchases
 C. Maintained property management records
 D. Conducted inventories of accountable property
 E. Prepared reports of lost, stolen, or damaged property
 F. Been an accountable property officer
 G. None of the above
9. Select each option that describes your experience applying Federal government rules, regulations and policies concerning real property.

 A. Office supplies
 B. Office equipment
 C. Office furniture
 D. Computers/computer software
 E. Motor vehicles
 F. None of the above
10. Select the option that best describes your experience development of an organization's operational budget.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
11. Select each option that describes your experience performing duties to resolve and/or prevent conflicts in the workplace.

 A. Provide advice and counsel to employees
 B. Schedule informal meetings between employees and managers
 C. Advise employees of the services available to them for conflict resolution
 D. None of the above
12. Select each option that describes your experience assisting managers/supervisors with preparing personnel actions and/or documents.

 A. Position descriptions
 B. Requests for recruitment
 C. Requests for promotion
 D. Staffing plans
 E. None of the above
13. Select each option that describes your experience advising management in Workforce Managment functions.

 A. Administrative policies and procedures
 B. Personnel issues
 C. Recruitment
 D. Staffing
 E. Benefits
 F. Pay
 G. Retirement
 H. None of the above
14. Select each option that describes your experience participating/coordinating with Workforce Managment staff on the following functions:

 A. Application of Federal, state or local government Veterans? preference laws
 B. Competitive hiring and promotions
 C. Training and tuition reimbursement for employees
 D. On boarding
 E. Benefits entitlements
 F. None of the above
15. Select each option that describes your experience performing the duties of an approving official for statements of work (SOW) related to General Services Administration (GSA) facilities.

 A. Explain the work to be performed.
 B. Provide cost breakdowns and applicable servicing agency fees.
 C. Provide a list of scheduled deliverables.
 D. None of the above
16. Select the option that best describes your experience providing program guidance on issues in the areas of safety and security of facilities, and in technical systems issues.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
17. Select the option that best describes your experience developing and describing budget considerations for options under review.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
18. Select each option that describes your experience monitoring facilities functions.

 A. Monitor requirements for security systems.
 B. Monitor ongoing issues with service agreements and vendors.
 C. None of the above
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected