Position Title
High Voltage Electrical Apprentice I (Electrician - Lineman - Substation Operator)
Agency
Bonneville Power Administration
Announcement Number
25-BPA-47444-12789927-RG Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 8, 2025 to Wednesday, September 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a recent graduate who has, within the previous two years, completed or will complete by the date indicated in the job announcement, a qualifying Associate's, Bachelors, Masters, Doctorate, professional, vocational or technical degree or certificate program?

Note: Veterans unable to apply within two years of receiving their degree due to military service obligation have up to six years after degree completion to apply.

For more information on eligibility visit: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/students/

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I understand that I must select "Yes" to at least one of the eligibility questions to be considered for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Do any of your relatives work for the agency to which you are applying? If so, please list any applicable names below. Please enter N/A in the text box, if not Applicable. (Include: father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, and half sister).
2. Instructions: To provide the hiring manager an opportunity to consider your accomplishments, you may submit/attach copies of your performance appraisals and/or incentive award justification as part of your application by uploading these documents into USA Staffing.


All current Federal employees must have at least a fully successful or equivalent performance rating or higher, to be considered for competitive placement. Competitive Federal employees who have a current unacceptable performance rating will be excluded from consideration.
 A. I am a current Federal employee, my last performance rating was fully successful (meets expectations) or equivalent, or higher.
 B. I am a current Federal employee; my last performance rating was unacceptable (fails to meet expectations).
 C. I am a new Federal employee and have not received a performance rating as of the date of this application.
 D. I am not a Federal employee; however, I will consider attaching my recent performance appraisal from my employer for consideration.
 E. I am not a Federal employee, and I do not have any performance documentation to submit for consideration.
3. Have you received awards or been recognized as part of your annual performance appraisal for work that was based on one or more of the competencies described in this vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five (5) years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Please list the title, agency and dates of the appointments
6. Select all locations that you are interested in the Electrician Apprentice position.
 A. I am not interested in the Electrician Apprentice positions.
 B. Kent, WA
 C. Pasco, WA
 D. Olympia, WA
 E. Snohomish, WA
 F. Spokane, WA
 G. Goshen, OR
 H. Keizer, OR
 I. Malin, OR
 J. Redmond, OR
 K. The Dalles, OR
 L. Umatilla, OR
 M. Lewiston, ID
7. Select all locations that you are interested in the Lineman Apprentice position.
 A. I am not interested in the Lineman Apprentice positions.
 B. Chehalis, WA
 C. Ellensburg, WA
 D. Olympia, WA
 E. Spokane, WA
 F. Redmond, OR
 G. Kalispell, MT
8. Select all locations that you are interested in the Substation Operator Apprentice position.
 A. I am not interested in the Substation Operator Apprentice positions.
 B. Custer, WA
 C. Kent, WA
 D. Longview, WA
 E. Olympia, WA
 F. Bremerton, WA
 G. Pasco, WA
 H. Richland, WA
 I. Snohomish, WA
 J. Spokane, WA
 K. Clarkston, WA
 L. Vancouver, WA
 M. Kalispell, MT
 N. Goshen, OR
 O. Redmond, OR
 P. Keizer, OR
 Q. The Dalles, OR
 R. Goldcreek, MT
Conditions of Employment
1. I understand that I must establish a residence in accordance with negotiated requirements that is within one (1) hour or less commuting time under normal weather and road conditions, to the duty station headquarters.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I understand that this position requires a pre-employment medical exam, at BPA expense, prior to appointment due to the physical requirements of the position. Subject to periodic physical examinations.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I understand that I must always possesses a valid state driver's license. And that traffic citations indicating poor driving habits may disqualify me or can be cause for removal from the program.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I understand that this position requires an initial drug test prior to appointment and random drug or drug and alcohol testing thereafter. Failure to test or a positive result on random drug or drug and alcohol tests conducted after appointment may result in removal from Federal employment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I understand that this position requires that you satisfactorily complete assigned lessons associated with periodic classroom instruction sessions and e-learning courses in electrical trade theory during each step of the apprenticeship program.  Are you willing to commit approximately 15 study hours each week on average to prepare for classroom training and end-of-step reviews?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. I understand that this position requires that you sign a "Continuation of Service Agreement".  The agreement will obligate you to remain with BPA for a period of one-year upon completion of apprenticeship training.  Are you willing to enter into an agreement with BPA?
 A. Yes
 B. No
DRP
1. Are you a Department of Energy employee who accepted the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) either through OPM's Fork in the Road or through DOE's DRP?

 A. Yes, I am a DOE employee who accepted the DRP through resignation or retirement.
 B. No, I am not a DOE DRP participant.
2. Are you a Department of Energy employee who is currently on Administrative Leave?
 A. Yes, I am a DOE employee who is currently on Administrative Leave
 B. No, I am not a DOE employee who is currently on Administrative Leave.
Assessment 1
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
1. Possess the aptitude and interest for learning trade theory and practice and am able to preform simple tasks under close supervision as described in the vacancy announcement.
 
 A. I know little or nothing about this.
 B. I have had study or training in this.
 C. I have used my knowledge or ability, but I have been closely supervised.
 D. I have used my knowledge or ability on my own, under normal supervision.
 E. I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected