Position Title
Program Analyst (MCC Operations Manager)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12776848 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 1, 2025 to Monday, August 11, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Millington, TN
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Program Analyst (MCC Operations Manager) position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you have four (4) or more years(s) of specialized experience with managing projects that support Child and Youth programs?  Experience may include both IT and non-IT project initiatives, and include the development, implementation or improvement of systems, services or program operations.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. How many years of experience do you have working in an administrative role supporting child and youth programs at either a regional or headquarters level?
 A. I have 4+ years of experience as described above.
 B. I have 3 to 4 years of experience as described above.
 C. I have 2 to 3 years of experience as described above.
 D. I have less than 2 years of experience as described above.
 E. I have no experience as described above.
3. How many years of experience do you have with briefing and advising senior military and civilian Department of Defense (DoD) officials (to include HQ Service Level)?
 A. I have 4+ years of experience as described above.
 B. I have 3 to 4 years of experience as described above.
 C. I have 2 to 3 years of experience as described above.
 D. I have less than 2 years of experience as described above.
 E. I have no experience as described above.
4. How many years of experience do you have determining IT end-user training requirements, to include designing, developing and/or implementing training solutions?
 A. I have 4+ years of experience as described above specifically related to IT end-users training.
 B. I have 4 years of training experience as described above, not specific to IT end-user training.
 C. I have 2 to 4 years of experience as described above.
 D. I have less than 2 years of experience as described above.
 E. I have no experience as described above.
5. How many years of experience do you have working with groups either as a facilitator or a participant for the purpose of determining IT system requirements?
 A. I have 4+ years of experience as described above
 B. I have 3 to 4 years of experience as described above.
 C. I have 2 to 3 years of experience as described above.
 D. I have less than 2 years of experience as described above.
 E. I have no experience as described above.
6. How many years of experience do you have working with MilitaryChildCare.com or other IT systems that support military Child and Youth programs?
 A. I have 4+ years of experience as described above working directly with MilitaryChildCare.com
 B. I have 4+years of experience as described above working directly with other IT systems that support military Child and Youth Programs.
 C. I have 3 to 4 years of experience as described as above.
 D. I have 2 to 3 years of experience as described above.
 E. I have less than 2 years of experience as described above.
 F. I have no experience as described above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected