Position Title
Medical Records Administrator
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSX-12771293-25-TS Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 31, 2025 to Wednesday, August 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position you will be separated from; AND,
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; AND, 
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. Please indicate dates of the highest grade you have held in the Federal service (if applicable).
3. In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
4. What was the start and end (if applicable) date of promotion/appointment for the highest grade held above? Your response will assist in verifying the time in grade requirement if applicable to this position. If you have never held a federal position, please type "N/A".
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Medical Record Administrator position with the VA. Please provide an answer to each question. Answering "no" or failing to respond to any of the below questions will result in an ineligible rating.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. English Language Proficiency. Are you proficient in written and spoken English?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Experience and Education. Please select the option that best describes your experience and/or education.
 A. Three years of experience in the field of medical records that included the preparation, maintenance, and management of medical records and health information systems. At least 1 year of this experience must be comparable to a GS-4 level position.
 B. An associate's degree in the health information field plus 1 year of experience that included the preparation, maintenance, and management of medical records and health information systems.
 C. Education equivalent to a baccalaureate degree from an accredited university or college.
 D. Possession of equivalent combinations of experience and education.
 E. None of the above.
Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. GS-05: Do you meet the basic requirements that are listed in questions 1 and 2?

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. GS-07: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, do you possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level which demonstrates the core competencies described at that level and can you demonstrate the following KSAs:
Comprehensive understanding of clinical classification systems and nomenclatures.
Ability to provide advisory and technical expertise on a range of health information management/medical record issues to staff, management, and the general public.
Ability to use data collection and analytical techniques for purposes of review, quality control, studies and analysis.
Knowledge of and ability to use and evaluate software programs and information systems relative to health information services.
Knowledge of anatomy, pathophysiology, and medical terminology.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. GS-09: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, do you possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level which demonstrates the core competencies described at that level OR education equivalent to 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education or master's or equivalent graduate degree from an accredited college or university in a field directly related to health information, and can you demonstrate the following KSAs:
Ability to interpret and apply knowledge of clinical classification systems such as International Classification of Diseases (ICD), Current Procedural Technology (CPT), the Systematized Nomenclature of Medicine (SNOMED), and the Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System (HCPCS).
Ability to determine and evaluate compliance with the standards of regulatory and accrediting bodies such as the Joint Commission on the Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO), the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, etc.
Ability to provide technical advice and/or provide oversight on health information issues. This includes skill in interpreting and adapting health information management guidelines that are not completely applicable to the work or have gaps in specificity;
Ability to extract information, generate reports from various databases (e.g. clinical, financial), and analyze data including a consideration of such issues as applicability, validity, reliability, and the quality and characteristics of the data source, etc.
If the position is supervisory in nature, ability to successfully apply principles and techniques of sound human resource management.
If the position is supervisory in nature, skill in administrative management, i.e., budgeting, contracting, procurement, property management.
If the position is supervisory in nature, ability to delegate authority, evaluate and oversee people and programs, accomplish program goals, and adapt to changing priorities.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. GS-11: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, do you possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level which demonstrates the core competencies described at that level OR education equivalent to 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree from an accredited university or college in the field of health information, and can you demonstrate the following KSAs:
Skill in project management and process improvement, which includes the ability to develop new or improved solutions to complex technical problems in health information management.
Ability to advise management and staff about adequate medical record documentation, health information services, and/or computerized patient records based on current statutes and standards.
Ability to plan for, justify, test, assess, and/or advise about the use of current and future software programs or information systems, implement and integrate such products into current health information management processes, and recommend changes in policies or procedures.
Ability to interpret, implement, and apply knowledge of privacy and confidentiality requirements affecting individual patient/protected health information.
Demonstrated comprehensive knowledge of medical and legal requirements related to both paper and electronic medical records.
Ability to communicate and negotiate with professionals in higher level positions.
If the position is supervisory in nature, ability to plan, develop, direct, and evaluate health information or related functions.
If the position is supervisory in nature, ability to successfully apply principles and techniques of sound human resources management.
If the position is supervisory in nature, skill in administrative management, i.e., budgeting, contracting, procurement, and property management.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected