Position Title
CYP Child Development Center Director w/Oversight
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12755622 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, June 26, 2025 to Sunday, July 6, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Condition of Employment
1. For security clearance purposes, I am or will be 18 years of age or older prior to start of employment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I am willing and able to submit to a pre-employment physical exam prior to employment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This position requires selectee to complete and pass a pre-employment drug test. I am willing and able to complete and pass a pre-employment drug test.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a current or former Navy NAF employee that occupied a position within CNIC Headquarters, Region or Installation Human Resources Office? If yes, you must submit a copy of your Personnel Action Report (PAR) at time of application.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you currently employed in the United States government workforce as a federal employee (e.g., NAF or APF)?

If you answer yes to this question, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Personnel Action Report (PAR/SF-50) showing your status as a federal employee. Failure to provide documentation to support your claim may result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Proof of Education is a requirement for this position, have you uploaded a copy of your HS Diploma (HS Transcripts with Graduation Date also accepted) OR a copy of your Official College Transcripts with a conferred date (Graduation Date). **If your College Transcripts do not have a Conferred Date you MUST then provide (upload) a copy of your HS Diploma**
Without providing the required Proof of Education as stated above, you will not be considered for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Child Development Center Director w/ CYP Oversight - Medium CDC. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
 
1. Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you.
 A. I have a 4-year degree in Early Childhood Education, Child Development, Elementary Education, Special Education, Home Economics (early childhood emphasis) or related field of study AND 3 years of full time experience working with children and/or youth.
 B. I have a Master's degree in the related field of study AND minimum of 1 year of professional experience working with children and/or youth.
 C. I have a combination of education and experience (e.g., courses equivalent to a major in a field [24 higher level semester hours] appropriate to the position [see above]) plus appropriate experience or additional course work that that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of the 4-year course of study described above AND 3 years of full time experience working with children and/or youth.
 D. I have none of the above.
2. What is your highest level of education?
 A. I have a Master’s degree in Early Childhood Education (ECE), Child Development, Elementary Education, Special Education, Home Economics (early childhood emphasis), or a related field of study that included a major study in education.
 B. I have a Bachelor’s degree in ECE, Child Development, Elementary Education, Special Education, Home Economics (early childhood emphasis), or a related field of study that included a major study in education.
 C. I do not have a degree, but I have a combination of education and experience.
 D. I have none of the above.
3. How many years of experience do you have in managing and designing complex child development programs, which may include safety, security, disease prevention, employee training, developmentally appropriate activities, parent involvement, and facility management?
 A. I have 3+ years of experience in managing and designing child development programs, as described above, at the director level in a Department of Defense (DoD) Child and Youth Program.
 B. I have 1 to 3 years of experience in managing and designing child development programs, as described above, at the director level in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 C. I have 3+ years of experience in managing and designing child development programs, as described above, at the director level in a child and youth program outside of the DoD..
 D. I have 1 to 3 years of experience in managing and designing child development programs, as described above, at the director level in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 E. I have less than 1 year of experience in managing and designing child development programs.
 F. I have no experience in the above.
4. How many years of experience do you have in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing as it pertains to a child and youth program?
 A. I have 3+ years of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 B. I have 1 to 3 years of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 C. I have 3+ years of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 D. I have 1 to 3 years of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 E. I have less than 1 year of experience in financial management.
 F. I have no experience in the above.
5. How many years of supervisory experience do you have?
 A. I have 10+ years of supervisory experience.
 B. I have 5 to 10 years of supervisory experience.
 C. I have 1 to 5 years of supervisory experience.
 D. I have less than 1 year of supervisory experience.
 E. I have no supervisory experience.
6. Have you ever held an installation program oversight position for a DoD Child and Youth Program?
 A. Yes, I have held an installation program oversight position for a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 B. No, I have not held an installation program oversight position for a DoD Child and Youth Program.
7. What size is the DoD Child Development Center (CDC) program you have experience in managing?
 A. I have experience managing a large DoD CDC program (200 children and above).
 B. I have experience managing a medium DoD CDC program (101 to 199 children).
 C. I have experience managing a small DoD CDC program (up to 100 children).
 D. I have no experience in the above.
8. Do you have programming and management experience in one or more of the following DoD Child and Youth Program areas: Child Development Centers (CDCs), Family Child Care/Child Development Homes (FCC/CDHs), Youth Programs (YPs), and/or Child and Youth Education Services (CYES) (School Liaison)?
 A. I have programming and management experience in all four of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 B. I have programming and management experience in at least three of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 C. I have programming and management experience in at least two of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 D. I have programming and management experience in one of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 E. I have no experience in the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected