Position Title
Vocational Rehab Counselor
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
CASH-12769458-25-CMW (SE-D) Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 22, 2025 to Monday, October 20, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; AND, 
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Huntsville, AL
 B. Montgomery, AL
 C. Little Rock, AR
 D. Fort Walton Beach, FL
 E. Jacksonville, FL
 F. Orlando, FL
 G. Saint Petersburg, FL
 H. Sunrise, FL
 I. Atlanta, GA
 J. Augusta, GA
 K. Savannah, GA
 L. Fort Knox, KY
 M. Lexington, KY
 N. Louisville, KY
 O. New Orleans, LA
 P. Shreveport, LA
 Q. Jackson, MS
 R. Asheville, NC
 S. Charlotte, NC
 T. Fayetteville, NC
 U. Jacksonville, NC
 V. Winston-Salem, NC
 W. San Juan, PR
 X. Charleston, SC
 Y. Columbia, SC
 Z. Greenville, SC
 AA. Clarksville, TN
 AB. Fort Campbell, TN
 AC. Knoxville, TN
 AD. Nashville, TN
 AE. Hampton, VA
 AF. Norfolk, VA
 AG. Richmond, VA
 AH. Roanoke, VA
 AI. Huntington, WV
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
9
11
12
3. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in completing the online questionnaire for the position of Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor with the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA). Your responses to this online application will be evaluated in making preliminary screening decisions for the position.

Informational Note: This position is covered by a single agency qualification: Effective July 28,2023, VA Handbook 5005 was updated to change the VBA qualification standard for the Vocational Rehabilitation Counselors (VRCs) in the GS-0101 series. All applicants must meet the Basic Requirement and Specialized experience as stated below, to qualify. 

1. AREA OF CONSIDERATION REQUIREMENT
This vacancy announcement is open ONLY to current, permanent Veterans Benefit Administration (VBA) employees and current/former Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) employees who are CTAP eligible. Please select the appropriate response below.
 A. Yes, I am a current, permanent employee of the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA).
 B. Yes, I am a current/former employee of the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) affected by reduction-in-force, making me eligible to apply under the the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP).
 C. No, I do not meet the Area of Consideration requirements as described above.
TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENT 
Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements.
Note: An SF-50 that shows your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials. Time-in-grade requirements also apply for CTAP applicants. To support your claim of time-in-grade, you must submit your most recent appointment, promotion, or within-grade step increase SF-50 (Not an award or general adjustment SF-50). Some applicants may have to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate their eligibility. See the required documents section for more information.  Please select the appropriate response below for each grade level.
2. GS-09: At this grade, applicants must have one year time-in-grade at the GS-07 level or higher. Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 A. Yes, I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-07 grade level or higher.
 B. No, I do not have at least one year of time-in-grade at the GS-07 level (or above) nor am I eligible for a non-competitive hiring authority.
3. GS-11: At this grade, applicants must have one year time-in-grade at the GS-09 level or higher. Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 A. Yes, I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-09 grade level or higher.
 B. No, I do not have at least one year of time-in-grade at the GS-09 level (or above) nor am I eligible for a non-competitive hiring authority
4. GS-12: At this grade, applicants must have one year time-in-grade at the GS-11 level or higher. Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 A. Yes, I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-11 grade level or higher.
 B. No, I do not have at least one year of time-in-grade at the GS-11 level (or above) nor am I eligible for a non-competitive hiring authority.
The following section is used to determine your job-related experience/education. Your education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to perform the work. Please select the most appropriate response to the following questions. Select only one response. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance. You will be asked at the end of this questionnaire to certify your entire application as true and accurate.
5. BASIC REQUIREMENTS

To be eligible for this position, you must have one of the following degrees. Your application MUST include a transcript (not diploma) stating the degree has been conferred or that you have graduated. A master's degree in rehabilitation counseling, including an internship;

EDUCATION:
Successful completion of a master's degree (or higher) in rehabilitation counseling, rehabilitation services, clinical rehabilitation counseling, counseling psychology, mental health counseling, career counseling or social work from an accredited college or university (MUST SUBMIT TRANSCRIPTS).

INTERNSHIP REQUIREMENT: Your degree must have included either an internship or experience as described below. 
 (1) Supervised Internship: The education described above must have included a supervised internship in rehabilitation counseling or case management specialization. The internship must have been supervised by a professional in vocational rehabilitation or a closely  related professional field that typically has oversight for vocational rehabilitation programs. 
OR
(2) post-master's degree experience is described as follows:  Experience: One-year post-master's degree experience in direct delivery of professional vocational rehabilitation services to individuals with disabilities.

GRANDFATHERING PROVISIONS: Vocational Rehabilitation Counselors employed within the VBA on the effective date of (July 28, 2023) this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including certifications that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements in this standard but met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed, the following provisions apply:
1. VRCs who are grandfathered into the GS-0101 occupational series may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance level of a career ladder or changed to a lower grade within the occupation or placed in a supervisory or managerial position.
2. VRCs who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of this qualification standard may not be extended or reappointed on a temporary or permanent basis until they fully meet the basic requirements of this standard.
3. If VRCs who are grandfathered under this provision leave the occupation, they lose protected status and must meet the full qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of re-entry to the occupation.
Copy of master's transcripts is required, unless you are electing to utilize Grandfather Provisions. If you are not eligible for Grandfathering Provisions and you do not submit a copy of your transcript, your application may not be processed. Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 A. I have successfully completed a master's degree (or higher) in rehabilitation counseling, rehabilitation services, clinical rehabilitation counseling, counseling psychology, mental health counseling, career counseling or social work from an accredited college or university.
 B. I am eligible under the grandfathering provision of this qualification, as I was permanently employed prior to July 28, 2023, and currently remain a permanent employee of the Veterans Benefits Administration as a VRC.
 C. I have NOT successfully completed a master's degree (or higher) as described in "A" above, nor am I eligible for the grandfathering provision in "B" above, therefore, I do not meet this eligibility requirement for this position
6.
INTERNSHIP REQUIREMENT:
Please select the one response that describes your ability to meet the Internship or Experience Requirement for the VRC position. The education in paragraph "a" of the Basic Requirement listed above must have included a supervised internship in rehabilitation counseling or case management specialization. The internship must have been supervised by a professional in vocational rehabilitation or a closely related professional field that typically has oversight for vocational rehabilitation programs.
 A. I have successfully completed a supervised internship in rehabilitation counseling or case management specialization. My internship was supervised by a professional in vocational rehabilitation or a closely related professional field that typically has oversight for vocational rehabilitation programs
 B. I have successfully completed at least one-year post-masters degree experience in direct delivery of professional vocational rehabilitation services to individuals with disabilities.
 C. I am eligible under the grandfathering provision of this qualification, as I was permanently employed prior to July 28, 2023 and currently remain a permanent employee of the Veterans Benefits Administration as a VRC.
 D. I do not meet the requirements as stated in "A”, “B", or "C" above, therefore, I do not meet this eligibility requirement for this position.
7. SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENT - GS 11 Grade Level
In addition to meeting the Basic Requirements stated above, one year of post- graduate level professional vocational rehabilitation counseling experience, equivalent to the GS-09 level at the Federal, state, local government, Not-for-Profit or private sector is required. From the descriptions below, please select a response that best describes the level of education and experience you fully possess that demonstrates your ability and qualifications to perform the work of Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor at the grade level of GS-11.NOTE: If one year of work experience is credited for determining minimum qualifications, that year cannot also be used for determining grade level. For example, for candidates with two years of qualifying work experience, but no internship/practicum, the first year of experience is used to meet the basic requirement and the second year of experience to qualify for GS-12.

 A. In addition to meeting the basic educational requirements listed above, I possess at least one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience (post completion of my master's degree), equivalent to at least the next lower grade level of GS-9 in the Federal, state, local, public, or private sector which was not included in meeting the basic requirement as stated above, indicating my ability to perform the duties of this position at the GS-11 level. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: Experience that reflects management of vocational rehabilitation counseling or case management workload involving persons with a wide variety of disability conditions (e.g., mental health, physical, cognitive, visual/auditory, substance abuse).
 B. In addition to meeting the basic educational requirement listed above, I have successfully completed 3 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or equivalent doctoral degree at an accredited college or university in a field directly related to the REHABILITATION of Adults with mental or physical disabilities, as described in question 1, which provided me with the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position at the GS-11 grade level.
 C. I do not have the specialized experience or education in a field directly related to the REHABILITATION of Adults with mental or physical disabilities, as described in either "A" or "B" above, therefore, I am not qualified for this position.
8. SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENT - GS 12 Grade Level
In addition to meeting the Basic Requirements stated above, one year of post- graduate level professional vocational rehabilitation counseling experience, equivalent to the GS-11 level at the Federal, state, local government, Not-for-Profit or private sector is required. From the descriptions below, please select a response that best describes the level of education and experience you fully possess that demonstrates your ability and qualifications to perform the work of Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor at the grade level of GS-12. NOTE: If one year of work experience is credited for determining minimum qualifications, that year cannot also be used for determining grade level. For example, for candidates with two years of qualifying work experience, but no internship/practicum, the first year of experience is used to meet the basic requirement and the second year of experience to qualify for GS-12.
 A. In addition to meeting the Basic educational Requirements stated above, I possess one year of post-graduate level professional vocational rehabilitation counseling experience, equivalent to at least the grade level of GS-11 in the Federal, state, local, public, or private sector. Specialized experience is defined as: post-master's degree, professional vocational rehabilitation counseling work in delivery of service to adults with disabilities; providing case management that involved determining entitlement ranges from simple to complex; AND direct delivery of vocational rehabilitation services to adults with disabilities in rehabilitation programs, other than those in correctional facilities.
 B. I do not have the specialized experience described in "A" listed above, therefore, I am not qualified for this position at the GS-12 grade level.
9. CERTIFICATION STATEMENT

I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes, I certify that the information I provided in this application questionnaire is true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
 B. No, I do not certify that the information I provided in this application questionnaire is true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected