Position Title
QUALITY ASSURANCE SPECIALIST(T32)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
AL-12788170-AF-25-108 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 27, 2025 to Wednesday, September 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. All on-board federal employees/technicians within the state for which you are applying (Title 32 and Title 5, Permanent and Excepted Indefinite).  Are you a current on-board federal employee or technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1, 2,or 3).
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. All on-board National Guard Title 32 Excepted Technicians within the state for which you are applying (Title 32 Permanent and Excepted Indefinite).  Are you a current on-board National Guard Title 32 Excepted Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1, 2, or 3).
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

All current (nationwide) federal employees.  Are you a current federal employee?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1 or 2).

 

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current Permanent full-time Dual Status National Guard Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Permanent full-time status with the state National Guard.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current Temporary Indefinite full-time Dual Status National Guard Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Indefinite full-time status with the state National Guard.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. National Guard- All On-Board In-State National Guard Title 5 Excepted Employees (NG T5 Perm Empl).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Please answer the following multiple choice questions to the best of your knowledge.
1. Are you currently a member of the Alabama Air National Guard? If you are not sure you are eligible, please contact an Alabama Air National Guard recruiter at (800) 864-6264.
 A. Yes, I am a full-time Technician with the Alabama Air National Guard.
 B. Yes, I am a temporary technician or traditional M-Day soldier with the Alabama Air National Guard.
 C. No, I am a member of another state's National Guard but willing and eligible to join the Alabama Air National Guard.
 D. No, I am a Reservist/IRR or an active duty soldier and willing and eligible to join the Alabama Air National Guard.
 E. No, I am prior service with no military status at this time but willing and eligible to join the Alabama Air National Guard.
 F. No, I am civilian and do not have any prior military service but willing and eligible to join the Alabama Air National Guard.
 G. No, I fall in one of the types of military status mentioned in C, D, E or F but do not wish to join the Alabama Air National Guard.
2. Do you currently possess the required rank for this position? (Please see job announcement for the minimum and maximum ranks listed for this position.)
 A. Yes, I am currently within the required ranks for this position.
 B. No, I am currently above the required ranks but I will submit the required letter along with resume agreeing to a military demotion if selected. I also understand that this statement of understanding is required for basic qualification.
 C. I am not currently in the Alabama Air National Guard but I am willing and eligible to join in required ranks if selected.
 D. No, I am currently above the required ranks and I am not willing and/or eligible to accept a demotion if selected.
 E. No, I am not currently within the required ranks for this position.
 F. I am not currently in the Alabama Air National Guard and I am not willing/eligible to join if selected.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. This position requires at least 1-year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade in the following tasks: Experience possessed by an expert in specialization able to give technical direction to otherwise competent workers. Experience determining operations when difficult and questionable phases of malfunctions are found. Experience which required significant and concrete work accomplishments (i.e., special projects, working groups, or detailing assignments) involving interpersonal contacts in a quality assurance or related field. Experience in dealing with management principles and supervisory responsibility for the function required by type of position to be filled and the organization involved. Do you currently possess this experience?
 A. Yes
 B. No
For each knowledge area, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of knowledge using the scale below.
4.

Comprehensive and thorough knowledge of the entire maintenance quality assurance program to include the full range of principles, concepts, and methodology and the skill in applying this knowledge to several complex products, specialties and functional areas such as aircraft, aircraft systems, electronics, munitions and engines, production, etc.

 A. I have no knowledge of this area.
 B. I have the knowledge to understand general issues and/or contribute opinions during a casual conversation concerning topics in this area.
 C. I have the knowledge to teach at the high school level or train novices about issues in this area.
 D. I have the knowledge to teach at the college undergraduate level or to train entry-level professionals about issues in this area.
 E. I have the knowledge to teach at the graduate level or to train professionals in this area.
5.

Thorough knowledge and skill in applying the various methods and techniques for investigating, analyzing such as executing the MSEP involved with PEs, QVIs, SIs etc and using this process and others to effect corrective action on a number of complex aircraft maintenance quality problems.

 A. I have no knowledge of this area.
 B. I have the knowledge to understand general issues and/or contribute opinions during a casual conversation concerning topics in this area.
 C. I have the knowledge to teach at the high school level or train novices about issues in this area.
 D. I have the knowledge to teach at the college undergraduate level or to train entry-level professionals about issues in this area.
 E. I have the knowledge to teach at the graduate level or to train professionals in this area.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected