Position Title
Air Interdiction Agent
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
AMO-SMP(ICTAP)-12776201-AGJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 7, 2025 to Wednesday, August 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. (1) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is currently on Active Duty?

-OR-

(2) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs? In order to be considered under this appointment authority you must not currently be serving or have served under this authority. 

-OR-

(3) Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status? In order to be considered under this appointment authority you must not currently be serving or have served under this authority.

To verify your eligibility for option 1 identified above, you must submit official supporting documentation (i.e. copy of the Active Duty orders or statement of service)

To verify your eligibility for options 2 and 3 identified above, you must submit all supporting documents identified on the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15 (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (Member 4 copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; death certificate and documentation identifying marital status at the time of death; disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service, etc.). For information on how to request veterans documentation please contact the Veterans Affairs Benefits and Services at 1-800-827-1000   or online via https://iris.custhelp.va.gov/app/ask/ 

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans Resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.
 
3. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
5. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency? If yes, confirm:
You occupy (or have been separated from) a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee with a confirmed Reemployment Priority List (RPL) registration that includes the following:
You have received notice that you will be displaced from the DHS, or
You have been separated by a reduction in force (RIF) from DHS within the last two years, or
You are fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year after compensation began, AND you have either separated from DHS due to a compensable injury or disability OR you have accepted a position at a lower grade or pay level in lieu of separation. 
 If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your eligibility, such as:
RPL registration documentation, AND
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
If recovered from a compensable injury, Department of Labor notification that injury compensation benefits will or have been ceased
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
are entitled to veterans' preference?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service. For information on how to request your veterans documentation please contact the Veterans Affairs Benefits and Services at 1-800-827-1000  or online via https://iris.custhelp.va.gov/app/ask/
 A. Yes
 B. No
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/
8.

Are you a current or former land management employee eligible to apply under The Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act as described in 5 U.S.C 9602, who meets the conditions below?  

Hired for a temporary or term position under a competitive appointment.  

Served one or more temporary or term appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years.  

Performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service.  

If no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit the following: 

Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 reflecting your time limited status. 

Additional Standard Form 50s may be required to demonstrate a service period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years.  

Your most recent performance appraisal demonstrating fully successful, or equivalent.  See Additional Information section of vacancy announcement for further details.    

If you have had multiple periods of time-limited employment, you must show proof of acceptable levels of employment for each of the periods of employment used to satisfy the 24-month requirement.  

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Sierra Vista, AZ
 B. Tucson, AZ
 C. Yuma, AZ
 D. Riverside, CA
 E. San Diego, CA
 F. Homestead, FL
 G. Jacksonville, FL
 H. Key Largo, FL
 I. Glynco, GA
 J. Hammond, LA
 K. Old Town, ME
 L. Selfridge ANG Base, MI
 M. Buffalo, NY
 N. Farmingdale, NY
 O. Plattsburgh, NY
 P. Grand Forks, ND
 Q. Aguadilla, PR
 R. Salinas, PR
 S. Corpus Christi, TX
 T. El Paso, TX
 U. Laredo, TX
 V. McAllen, TX
 W. San Angelo, TX
 X. San Antonio, TX
 Y. Uvalde, TX
 Z. Bellingham, WA
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
12
13
3. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am applying as a VEOA and am not a current or former federal employee; OR I am a current or former federal employee eligible under the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act; OR I am applying as a Military Spouse.
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a current GS federal employee (or my previous federal employment in the last 52 weeks was) under one of the following appointments: temporary or as a Schedule B VEOA.
5. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under non-temporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am applying as a VEOA and am not a current or former federal employee; OR I am a current or former federal employee eligible under the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act; OR I am applying as a Military Spouse.
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a current GS federal employee (or my previous federal employment in the last 52 weeks was) under one of the following appointments: temporary or as a Schedule B VEOA.
6. This position requires the ability to operate a Government Owned Vehicle. Do you have a valid, non-restricted driver's license or will you be able to obtain a valid, non-restricted driver's license before the time of appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by CBP. Individuals are required to have physically resided in the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law) for at least three of the last five years, before completing an application for CBP employment.

If you do not meet the residency requirement as stated above and you have been physically located in a foreign location for more than two of the last five years, you may request an exception to determine if you are eligible for a residency wavier by meeting one or more of the following conditions:
Working for the U.S. Government as a federal civilian or as a member of the military
A dependent who was authorized to accompany a federal civilian or member of the military who was working for the U.S. government
Participation in a study abroad program sponsored by a U.S. affiliated college or university
Working as a contractor, intern, consultant or volunteer supporting the U.S. government

Exceptions may be granted to applicants if they can provide complete state-side coverage information required to make a suitability determination. Examples of state-side coverage information include: the state-side address of the company headquarters where the applicant's personnel file is located, the state-side address of the Professor in charge of the applicant's "Study Abroad" program, and/or the state-side addresses of anyone who worked or studied with the applicant while overseas. If selected for a position, you must provide documentation to support a request for an exception.

Do you meet the residency requirement?
 A. Yes, for at least 3 of the last 5 years I physically resided within the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law).
 B. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am a current CBP employee.
 C. No, I do not meet this requirement and am therefore requesting an exception under one of the criteria listed above. I understand that if selected for this position, I will be required to provide supporting documentation for the period of time I have spent outside of the United States.
 D. No, I do not meet this requirement and am not requesting an exception. I understand that since I do not meet CBP’s residency requirement, I cannot be considered for a position with CBP at this time.
8. Have you engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, holding facility, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution as defined in 42 U.S.C. § 1997?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Would you accept a term appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Have you been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or where the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse, or have you been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in such activity?
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
12. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
13. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
14. Conviction under Federal, State, or Tribal Court of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or child is disqualifying. An intimate partner means, with respect to a person, the spouse of the person, a former spouse of the person, an individual who is a parent of a child of the person, an individual who cohabitates or has cohabited with the person. Have you ever been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or a child?
 A. Yes
 B. No
15. Are you the subject of any Federal, State, or Tribal court-ordered restraining (protection) order for domestic abuse, including harassing, stalking, or threatening an intimate partner or a child?
 A. Yes
 B. No
16. Provisions of Public Laws 93-350 and 100-238 allow the imposition of a maximum age for initial appointment to a primary Law Enforcement Officer position within the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). In accordance with DHS Management Directive 251-03, the "day before an individual's 37th birthday" is the maximum age for original appointment to a position as a primary law enforcement officer within DHS. NOTE: The Commissioner of CBP has approved a temporary increase in the maximum allowable age to 40 for original placement into a law enforcement position. In accordance with Department of Homeland Security Directive 251-03, unless the below criteria applies, you must meet this age requirement by the date of referral to the hiring manager.

Creditable law enforcement officer service covered by Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) or Title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d), or creditable service covered by Title 5 U.S.C. 8401(36) (as a Customs and Border Protection Officer) on or after July 6, 2008, may be applied toward the maximum age requirement. This age restriction may not apply if you are currently serving in a federal civilian (not military) law enforcement position covered by Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) or Title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d).

Veterans Preference Eligibility: To ensure compliance with statutes pertaining to the appointment of preference eligible veterans as determined by the Merit Systems Protection Board in its recent decision of Isabella v. Dept. of State, the maximum age for original appointment articulated above shall not apply to the hiring of individuals entitled to veterans preference eligibility under 5 U.S.C. § 3312. You must submit proof of Veteran's Preference (DD-214 Member 4 Copy) at the time of application.

Will you be less than 40 years of age at the closing date of this announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No, but I have creditable federal civilian (not military) service under Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c), Title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d), or creditable service on or after July 6, 2008 covered by Public Law 110-161 that may be applied toward the maximum age requirement
 C. Not applicable. The age restriction does not apply to me because I am currently serving in a federal civilian (not military) position and the retirement covered under Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) or Title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d).
 D. Not Applicable. The age restriction does not apply because I am entitled to veterans’ preference eligibility under 5 U.S.C. § 3312
 E. No, I will not be less than 40 years of age at the closing date of this announcement and DO NOT meet any of the exceptions listed above. I understand that this will remove me from receiving further consideration under this announcement.
17. Which of the following statements best describes your pilot certification and ratings?
 A. I possess a current FAA Commercial or ATP Pilot Certificate with the following ratings: airplane, single engine or multiengine land with instrument; and rotorcraft helicopter with instrument.
 B. I possess a current FAA Commercial or ATP Pilot Certificate for Airplane single engine or multiengine land with the instrument rating.
 C. I possess a current FAA Commercial or ATP Pilot Certificate for Rotorcraft Helicopter with the instrument rating.
 D. I do not possess any of the above described certificates or ratings.
18. Does your flight log reflect a minimum of 1500 hours total flight time (100 hours of airplane and/or helicopter within the last 12 months) including 250 Pilot-in-Command and 75 instrument/night hours?
(NOTE: For inservice placement actions, up to one-half of the flight hours may be waived provided the individual's total background reflects the ability to perform the duties of the position safely. For positions flying both helicopters and airplanes, at least one-fourth of the total hours must be in either category of aircraft.)

 A. Yes, my flight log reflects a minimum of 1500 hours total flight time. I am uploading or faxing a legible copy of the last page of my flight log with my application.
 B. No, my flight log does NOT reflect a minimum of 1500 hours total flight time, but I AM eligible for a waiver. I am uploading or faxing a legible copy of the last page of my flight log with my application.
 C. No, my flight log does NOT reflect a minimum of 1500 hours total flight time and I AM NOT eligible for a waiver.
19. You must possess and provide proof of an FAA Medical Certificate First or Second Class. Either one must be dated within the last 12 calendar months and valid through the closing date of this announcement. However, at the time of your Flight Assessment you MUST have an FAA 1st Class Medical Certificate dated within the previous 12 calendar months. Military flight medicals cannot be used - you must possess an FAA 1st or 2nd class Medical certificate.

Select the statement that best describes your FAA medical certificate.
 A. I possess a current FAA Medical Certificate First Class and will submit a legible copy as part of my application.
 B. I possess a current FAA Medical Certificate Second Class and will submit a legible copy as part of my application. I also understand that I MUST have an FAA Medical Certificate First Class dated within the previous 12 calendar months by the time of my Flight Assessment.
 C. I do not possess either of the FAA medical certificates described above and understand that I am not qualified for the Air Interdiction Agent position at this time.
Assessment 1
1. Which of the following statements best describes your experience?

 A. I have at least one year of experience as a federal law enforcement officer or agent, or as a CBP Air Interdiction Agent, GS-1881-11 (or higher grade level), with the federal government at the GS-11 or equivalent level.
 B. I have at least one year of specialized experience such as using law enforcement and interdiction techniques to detect, detain, apprehend, arrest and interdict suspected smugglers, and to conduct searches of aircraft and vehicles in accordance with operating procedures and related laws; evaluating information rapidly and making judicious decisions promptly, while remaining courteous and professional; using technology and intelligence to detect and prevent terrorists and instruments of terror from entering the United States (i.e., chemical, biological, and nuclear agents); using air intercept or sea search radar and performing Ground Control Intercepts (GCI).
 C. I do not possess the experience described above.
2. Which of the following statements best describes your experience?

 A. I have at least one year of experience as a federal law enforcement officer or agent, or as a CBP Air Interdiction Agent, GS-1881-12 (or higher grade level), with the federal government at the GS-12 or equivalent level.
 B. I have at least one year of specialized experience such as conducting undercover operations and/or approaching individuals or groups to gain compliance with established policies and regulations or to gain information by establishing rapport with a suspicious informant; testifying under oath before a grand jury, Federal court proceedings and other domestic legal proceedings; flying over large areas of water to conduct unseen aerial search of vessels in order to accurately determine speed, probable route, and point of rendezvous.
 C. I do not possess the experience described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
3. Select the option that best describes your experience performing air patrols and surveillance.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training in performing surveillance and air patrols, but I have not performed them.
 C. I have performed air patrol and surveillance under supervision or guidance of a more experienced pilot.
 D. I have served as the Pilot-in-Command while performing air patrols and surveillance, and I have trained others on proper procedures.
4. Select the option that best describes you experience interdicting vessels and people.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training on the interdiction of vessels and people, but have not yet applied this training on the job.
 C. I have assisted with the interdiction of vessels and people under the guidance of a supervisor or senior pilot.
 D. I have served as the Pilot-in-Command while performing air patrols and surveillance and have trained others on proper procedures.
5. Select the option that best describes your experience in detecting and identifying contraband smuggling methods.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received formal training on detecting and identifying contraband smuggling methods, but have not applied this training on the job.
 C. I have independently detected and identified contraband smuggling methods as part of my regular job duties.
 D. I have instructed or supervised others in the detection and identification of contraband smuggling methods.
6. Select the option that best describes your experience in sign cutting and sensor response techniques.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have performed sign cutting and sensor response techniques under supervision or guidance.
 C. I have independently performed sign cutting and sensor response techniques.
 D. I have instructed and supervised others in sign cutting and sensor response techniques.
7. Select the option that best describes your ability to make recommendations on the most appropriate strategy/approach to coordinate aircraft and ground assets.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in making recommendations on the most appropriate strategy/approach to coordinate aircraft and ground assets.
 C. I have independently made recommendations on the most appropriate strategy/approach to coordinate aircraft and ground assets
 D. I have independently made recommendations and led efforts to resolve complex coordination of aircraft and ground assets
 E. I have communicated extensively with others both inside and outside my organization to present sensitive briefings, serve as the main liaison with other organizations, or lead interagency task forces on special projects.
8. Do you have experience flying in support of Federal, State, and/or local agencies?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Do you have experience maintaining contact and cooperation with persons in the general aviation community and other law enforcement agencies to gather/share intelligence information regarding illegal activities or potential acts of terrorism?

 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Select the choice which best describes the extent of your training and experience in identifying, apprehending, and detaining those suspected of violating laws, regulations, and policies.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training in the laws, regulations, and policies related to the identification, apprehension and detention of suspected violators; but I have little or no experience in applying these laws, regulations, or policies on the job.
 C. I have experience either in identifying, apprehending, and detaining suspected violators or supervising the apprehension and detention of suspected violators while ensuring adherence to laws, regulations, and policies.
 D. I have extensive experience identifying, apprehending, and detaining suspected violators. I have also supervised the apprehension and detention of suspected violators while ensuring adherence to laws, regulations, and policies.
11. Do you have experience flying an aircraft in close proximity to another conveyance (for example, land vehicle, aircraft, vessel) in an overt or covert manner?

 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Select the option that best describes your experience evaluating evidence, facts, circumstances, and other incidents to better process a case including recommending a decision.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have gathered basic information relating to a case that others were responsible for working.
 C. I have had some experience processing evidence, facts, and circumstances relating to routine cases that I have worked.
 D. I have had extensive experience processing evidence, facts, and circumstances relating to my case workload, and I have used this information to recommend a decision based on my evaluation.
 E. I have been responsible for ensuring that others process evidence, facts, and circumstances relating to multiple cases, reviewing their findings, and using the information to recommend decisions in each case.
13. Select the choice which best describes your ability to communicate with all levels of employees and the public and resolve conflicts as needed.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have conferred with others in my work unit on an individual basis.
 C. I have communicated with others within my organization to resolve problems, prevent potential conflicts, and ensure technical and operational requirements were met as part of my regular job duties.
 D. I have communicated extensively with others within my organization to reach/build consensus on problems/issues that have arisen and lead teams or work groups to manage assets and meet project goals and deadlines.
 E. I have communicated extensively with others both inside and outside my organization to present sensitive briefings, serve as the main liaison with other organizations, or lead interagency task forces on special projects.
14. Are you able to obtain and maintain firearms certification?

 A. Yes
 B. No
15. Select the option that best describes your experience in evaluating aircraft operational procedures and mechanical difficulties.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have flown performance tests after overhaul or repair of an aircraft in order to ensure airworthy condition.
 C. I have been formally trained as a maintenance test pilot and I have served in this capacity on the job.
16. Select the choice which best describes your ability to gather and analyze facts, defined problems, identified solutions and make decisions that impact the accomplishment of mission.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have gathered data/information in preparation for analysis by others.
 C. I have gathered data/information, analyzed it, and summarized the results of my findings.
 D. I have gathered data/information, performed analyses, summarized results, and identified problem areas and implemented solutions.
17. Select the option that best describes your experience in evaluating projects or programs for effectiveness, efficiency, and compliance.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have identified projects or programs that could be improved, and I have reported my observations to my immediate supervisor.
 C. I have identified projects or programs that could be improved, and I have helped develop new policies or procedures to effect these improvements.  I have reviewed projects for compliance with agency standards.
 D. I have identified projects or programs that could be improved, and I have helped develop new policies or procedures that have been implemented throughout my  agency.  I have reviewed projects for compliance with agency standards and recommended corrective actions when necessary.
18. Select the choice that best describes the extent of your experience ensuring the security of information, records, and other documents.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I am knowledgeable about security programs, but have had no experience in establishing or maintaining the security of information, records, and other documents.
 C. I have been responsible for maintaining the security of information, records, and other documents.
 D. In addition to maintaining the security of information, records, and other documents; I have established a security program for a worksite, or I have trained or supervised others in the application of these policies.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected