Position Title
Community Recreation Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12770775 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 24, 2025 to Thursday, August 7, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. For security clearance purposes, I am or will be 18 years of age or older prior to start of employment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. This position requires selectee to satisfactorily complete all background checks in accordance with PL 101-647 to include National Agency Check with Written Inquiries (NACI). If access to Government computer, databases, and/or systems is required in the performance of duties, the incumbent must pass SF- 86/Eligibility for Secret Clearance upon hire and periodically thereafter as a condition of employment. To obtain a Secret Clearance, selectee must be a U.S. Citizen. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I am willing and able to acquire professional job-related certifications with the time frame specified in the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1

Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Supervisory Recreation Specialist position at the Community Recreation Program. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  

 

Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below. 

1. Please select the option as it best relates to your educational and/or professional experience. 

Must submit transcript in application in order to be considered for this recruitment if claiming education in place of specialized experience
 A. I have a four-year undergraduate or Master's degree in Recreation or another appropriate field of recreation such as Outdoor Recreation, Recreation and Parks Leadership, Wild Land Management, Natural Resources Recreation, Youth Recreation, Public, Urban, or Community Recreation, special populations recreation (e.g. senior citizens, institutional, etc.), Business Management, or Physical Education.
 B. I have four or more years of specialized experience in recreation. Specialized experience includes, but is not limited to planning, organizing, coordinating, supervising, or evaluating community, industrial, outdoor, institutional, or other recreational programs; Planning, establishing, or evaluating a recreational curriculum for junior college or higher academic levels; Instructing in the principles and techniques of recreational program planning and management; Serving in a leadership role in the programs and activities of local, regional, and/or national recreational organizations.
 C. I have a combination of education and specialized experience that equates to at least a four-year undergraduate degree. Specialized experience includes, but is not limited to planning, organizing, coordinating, supervising, or evaluating community, industrial, outdoor, institutional, or other recreational programs; Planning, establishing, or evaluating a recreational curriculum for junior college or higher academic levels; Instructing in the principles and techniques of recreational program planning and management; Serving in a leadership role in the programs and activities of local, regional, and/or national recreational organizations.
 D. I do not have a degree in Recreation, four or more years of specialized experience, or a combination of those.
2. Please select the option that best related to your experience with direct customer service.
 A. I have five or more years of experience in direct customer service.
 B. I have three to four years of experience in direct customer service.
 C. I have one to two years of experience in direct customer service.
 D. I do not have experience in customer service.
3. Please select the option as it best relates to your ability to resolve program issues and operational requirements with patrons and personnel inside and outside the local instillation and community organizations.
 A. I have five or more years of experience resolving program issues and operational requirements with patrons and personnel inside and outside the local instillation and community organizations.
 B. I have three to four years of experience resolving program issues and operational requirements with patrons and personnel inside and outside the local instillation and community organizations.
 C. I have one to two years of experience resolving program issues and operational requirements with patrons and personnel inside and outside the local instillation and community organizations.
 D. I have less than one year or no experience resolving program issues and operational requirements with patrons and personnel inside and outside the local instillation and community
4. Please select the option as it best relates to your experience and knowledge of recreation policies, requirements, administrative practices and procedures relating to the planning, budgeting, scheduling, and coordinating of recreational programs and the efficient operation and utilization of facilities and equipment.
 A. I have 5 or more years of experience in recreation policies, requirements, and administrative practices relating to budgeting, scheduling, and coordinating recreational programs and its successful operation with CNIC MWR or another Non-Appropriated Funded agency.
 B. I have 5 or more years of experience in recreation policies, requirements, and administrative practices relating to budgeting, scheduling, and coordinating recreational programs and its successful operation with a non-government agency.
 C. I have 3-5 years of experience in recreation policies, requirements, and administrative practices relating to budgeting, scheduling, and coordinating recreational programs and its successful operation with CNIC MWR or another Non-Appropriated Funded agency.
 D. I have 3-5 years of experience in recreation policies, requirements, and administrative practices relating to budgeting, scheduling, and coordinating recreational programs and its successful operation with a non-government agency.
 E. I have 1-2 years of experience in recreation policies, requirements, and administrative practices relating to budgeting, scheduling, and coordinating recreational programs and its successful operation with CNIC MWR or another Non-Appropriated Funded agency.
 F. I have 1-2 years of experience in recreation policies, requirements, and administrative practices relating to budgeting, scheduling, and coordinating recreational programs and its successful operation with a non-government agency.
 G. I do not have experience in recreation policies, requirements, and administrative practices relating to budgeting, scheduling, and coordinating recreational programs and its successful operation with CNIC MWR, another Non-Appropriated Funded agency or non-government agency.
5.

Do you have knowledge of general business principles for financial planning/reporting and of the Department of the Navy budget process method Appropriated Funded (APF) and Non-Appropriated Funded (NAF) funds? 

 A. I have knowledge of general business principles for financial planning/reporting and of the Department of the Navy budget process method Appropriated Funded (APF) and Non-Appropriated Funded (NAF) funds.
 B. I have knowledge of general business principles for financial planning/reporting, but not of the Department of the Navy budget process method Appropriated Funded (APF) and Non-Appropriated Funded (NAF) funds.
 C. I do not have knowledge of general business principles for financial planning/reporting but do have knowledge of the Department of the Navy budget process method Appropriated Funded (APF) and Non-Appropriated Funded (NAF) funds.
 D. I do not have knowledge of both general business principles for financial planning/reporting or knowledge of the Department of the Navy budget process method Appropriated Funded (APF) and Non-Appropriated Funded (NAF) funds
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected