Position Title
Immigration Services Officer
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12794935-BOI-IMP-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 10, 2025 to Friday, September 19, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current USCIS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. The Reemployment Priority List (RPL) is the mechanism DHS uses to give reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees separated by reduction-in-force (RIF), or fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a former USCIS employee?  If so, have you met all of the following criteria?
Registered for the RPL program, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupied a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current/most recent performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent, and
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606
For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, visit 5 CFR 330 Subpart B.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
My SF-50 showing Separation - RIF. If that is not available yet, then official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who is in a permanent position that is in the competitive service (see block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type)?

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of our SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who has held, or currently holds, a permanent position in the competitive service (see block #34 of your SF-50) with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?  

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
 Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
9
11
12
2. I acknowledge the following conditions if I choose to submit my resume through the USAJOBS Resume Builder:
I understand that resumes submitted through USAJOBS Resume Builder are converted to a PDF format when they are transmitted to USA Staffing from the USAJOBS applicant interface and additional spaces/page gaps are added to resumes during the Resume Builder conversion process;
Based on the above conditions, I understand that USCIS strongly encourages me to save my resume to a PDF document and upload the PDF document instead of submitting my resume created through Resume Builder;
I understand that USCIS' human resources will only review the first 2 pages of my resume to determine eligibility/qualifications for this position;
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I have met this requirement for consideration.

(Note: Additional guidance regarding this requirement is available within the How to Submit Your Resume section of the USCIS Resume Requirement FAQs.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 D. No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.
4. Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) from the Federal Government within the last 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. GS-09 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience and/or education?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I have successfully completed a Master’s or equivalent graduate degree or at least two (2) full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B or J.D. in a field related to the work of this position as described in the vacancy announcement.
 C. I possess a combination of specialized experience and graduate education beyond the first year of graduate study that together meet the requirements for this position.
 D. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.
2. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
3. GS-11 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience and/or education?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or at least three (3) full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M. in a field related to the work of this position as described in the vacancy announcement.
 C. I possess a combination of specialized experience and graduate education beyond the first two (2) years of graduate study that together meet the requirements for this position.
 D. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.
4. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
5. GS-12 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
6. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
7. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-09. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-07 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-07 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-07 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-09 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., VRA, Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement)
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
8. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-11. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-09 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-09 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-09 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-11 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., VRA, Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
9. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-12. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
The following section contains a multitude of question types. If you see a radio button, you can only select one response. If you see a checkbox, you may select all that apply.
10. Select the duties you performed when assisting applicants applying for benefits.
 A. Advised applicants on what supporting documentation was needed to apply.
 B. Explained laws, regulations and/or policies to applicants.
 C. When ineligible applicants were identified, I explained eligibility requirements.
 D. Assisted applicants with completing forms
 E. Explained administrative procedures to applicants (e.g., documentation, points of contact, deadlines).
 F. Explained processing times to applicants.
 G. Answered questions regarding pending status of application.
 H. Determined the acceptability of applications based on laws and/or regulations.
 I. Referred questionable cases to a superior.
 J. Reviewed applicant inquiries to determine nature of request.
 K. None of the above.
11. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience interviewing individuals to elicit and clarify information?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to interviewing individuals.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to interviewing techniques, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I advised others on effective techniques for unique interview situations.
 D. I independently interviewed individuals to elicit information in routine, non-sensitive cases.
 E. I independently interviewed individuals related to high-profile and extremely sensitive cases.
 F. I collaborated with my supervisor or senior team members to prepare for interviews.
 G. I completed interviews under the close guidance of my supervisor or senior team members.
12. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience conducting fact-gathering interviews?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education in conducting fact-gathering interviews.
 B. I conducted in-depth confidential interviews that required the further analysis of background information and the testimony elicited to gauge credibility.
 C. I conducted in-depth interviews that required a detailed dialogue with the interviewees to gather required information.
 D. I completed education and/or training in conducting fact-gathering interviews, but do not have professional experience.
 E. I conducted routine interviews (e.g., standard questions, no issues).
13. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience conducting non-adversarial fact-gathering interviews?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education in conducting fact-gathering interviews.
 B. I completed education and/or training in conducting fact-gathering interviews, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I conducted routine interviews (e.g., standard questions, no issues).
 D. I conducted in-depth interviews that required a detailed dialogue with the interviewees to gather required information.
 E. I conducted in-depth confidential interviews that required the further analysis of background information and the testimony elicited to gauge credibility.
14. Which option best describes your experience with and knowledge of information sharing procedures within the intelligence and/or law enforcement community?
 A. I am familiar with standard information sharing guidelines (i.e. privacy law, disclosure, and oversight).
 B. I have been directly involved in official information sharing within my own agency.
 C. I have been directly involved in official information sharing with partners external to my home agency.
 D. I have been a member of an official request for information (RFI) program working to process RFIs.
 E. I do not meet any of the options provided.
15. Which statement best describes your experience with setting work priorities?
 A. I have worked with others to set my priorities.
 B. I have independently maintained and set my own priorities on a regular basis.
 C. I have assisted in setting other's priorities (i.e. group settings).
 D. I have delegated priorities to others.
 E. I have no experience, training, or education with setting work priorities.
16. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience taking action after determining the status of case files?
 A. I responded to inquiries regarding status updates.
 B. I consulted with the appropriate personnel to resolve administrative obstacles that caused a delay in case processing.
 C. I made recommendations on the most appropriate course of action.
 D. I provided case file status information to my supervisor/superior.
 E. None of the above.
17. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience reviewing case file documents to determine the current status?
 A. I analyzed systems to ensure that they had current case status.
 B. I updated systems and databases to perform case management.
 C. I reviewed and tracked case files to ensure proper resolution of issues, problems, and errors in order to determine correct status.
 D. I researched, collected, and analyzed data in order to prepare case status reports
 E. I have no experience, training, or education related to determining case file status.
 F. I completed education and/or training related to case file status determinations, but do not have professional experience.
18. Which sources have you researched to adjudicate applications for benefits?
 A. Precedent decisions
 B. Guidance in legislative history
 C. Federal laws and regulations
 D. State and local news
 E. Operating instructions
 F. International treaties
 G. None of the above
19. Which statements best describes your highest level of experience reviewing case file documents to determine their status?
 A. I responded to inquiries from applicants, employees, and/or program offices to provide status updates.
 B. I consulted with senior-level officials to understand what factors caused a delay in case processing.
 C. I assisted higher level officials by providing data to support their case file-related decisionmaking.
 D. I completed education and/or training in determining the status of case files, but do not have professional experience.
 E. I have no experience, training, or education related to determining the status of case files.
20. Which sources have you researched to identify and detect Immigration Fraud?
 A. Immigration and Nationality Act.
 B. Law Enforcement databases.
 C. Obtained information from other agencies.
 D. National Criminal Information Center (NCIC).
 E. Treasury Enforcement Communication System (TECS).
 F. Interviews and sworn statements.
 G. None of the above.
21. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience using fact-finding methods and techniques to gather investigative information from various sources?
 A. I have no education, training, or experience in using fact-finding methods and techniques to gather investigative information from various sources.
 B. I have formal education or training in using fact-finding methods and techniques to gather investigative information from various sources.
 C. I have used fact-finding methods and techniques to gather investigative information from various sources under close supervision.
 D. I have independently regularly used fact-finding methods and techniques to gather investigative information from various sources.
 E. I have supervised others in, or been regularly consulted as an expert in, using fact-finding methods and techniques to gather investigative information from various sources.
22. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience conducting sensitive file reviews related to US Citizenship and Immigration Services?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to immigration file reviews.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to immigration file reviews, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I answered case status inquiries from the public (e.g., applicants, attorneys, schools, businesses).
 D. I explained citizenship and immigration procedures and requirements to stakeholders.
 E. I acted as a liaison for citizenship and immigration customers and their advocates regarding their requests for benefits.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
23. Have you passed the Immigration Services Officer Basic Training Course (BASIC)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
24. Select the tasks you have performed related to conducting security checks for immigration benefit applications.
 A. I used government systems to initiate security checks in accordance with all applicable laws and policies.
 B. I ensured that all records and property were maintained and destroyed in accordance with security requirements.
 C. I identified files with national security threats and public safety issues and prioritized them for security checks.
 D. I conducted file searches for aliases.
 E. I conducted file searches for criminal behavior.
 F. I conducted file searches for dates of birth.
 G. None of the above.
25. Select the activities you have performed to process application/petition packets.
 A. Reviewed applications/petitions for completeness.
 B. Verified accuracy of entered data
 C. Updated databases with new/revised information.
 D. Created queries to facilitate data review
 E. Conducted database searches to identify potential fraud
 F. Identified inconsistencies in case file contents
 G. Prepared follow up activities for packets that were identified as incomplete
 H. None of the above
26. Which choice best describes your highest level of experience adjudicating immigration benefits?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education in adjudicating immigration benefits.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to adjudicating immigration benefits but do not yet have professional experience.
 C. I provided data to immigration services officers who were responsible for adjudication.
 D. I reviewed immigration benefits applications for completion and accuracy.
 E. I adjudicated immigration benefits applications.
27. Select the tasks you have performed using computer systems to verify an individual's current identity and immigration status.
 A. Conducted file searches for aliases
 B. Conducted file searches for dates of birth
 C. Conducted file searches for adjudicated/pending applications
 D. Searched system for aliases and date of birth variations
 E. Searched system for previous immigration applications
 F. None of the above
28. Select the activities you have performed to ensure the integrity of case files.
 A. I maintained a file organization processes to ensure that files were accounted for on a daily basis.
 B. I managed a tracking database containing a process for checking-out and checking-in files.
 C. I identified missing files through conducting inventory and reconstructed the file to ensure all contents were restored.
 D. I located missing files and put them back where they belonged.
 E. I created temporary folders while organizing or consolidating files.
 F. None of the above.
29. Select the resources you have used to complete research on an individual's eligibility for immigration benefits.
 A. Immigration and Nationality Act
 B. Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American Relief Act (NACARA)
 C. Violence Against Women Act (VAWA
 D. Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA)
 E. Convention Against Torture
 F. Case Precedents
 G. Country Conditions
 H. International Human Rights Laws and Treaties
 I. Documentary Evidence
 J. Law enforcement data bases and records
 K. Agency's policy and procedures manual
 L. None of the above
30. Which response best describes your highest level of experience making legal decisions based on a preponderance of evidence received during data collection for applicants seeking immigration benefits?
 A. I provided data to others who were responsible for making legal decisions.
 B. I independently researched, interpreted and analyzed sources in order to make legal decisions.
 C. I independently reviewed and approved legal decisions made by others to ensure agency-/ organizational-wide pertinent sections of the law and regulations were supported.
 D. None of the above.
31. Which actions have you taken to perform security checks using government systems?
 A. Conducted file searches for aliases
 B. Conducted file searches for dates of birth
 C. Conducted file searches for criminal behavior
 D. Conducted file searches for fraud or suspected fraud
 E. Conducted file searches for misrepresentation of identity
 F. Reported submissions of fraudulent or altered documents
 G. Identified files with national security threats and public safety issues
 H. Ensured records and property were maintained and destroyed in accordance with security requirements.
 I. None of the above.
32. Which activities have you performed to assess the accuracy of case file contents?
 A. Reviewed applications/petitions for completeness
 B. Verified accuracy of entered data
 C. Updated databases with new/revised information
 D. Created queries to facilitate data review
 E. Conducted database searches to identify potential fraud
 F. Identified inconsistencies in case file contents
 G. Prepared follow up activities for packets that were identified as incomplete
 H. None of the above
33. Select the activities you have performed related to ensuring the accuracy of data related to immigration fraud.
 A. Reviewed applications/petitions for completeness.
 B. Verified accuracy of entered data
 C. Updated database with new or revised information.
 D. Created queries to facilitate data review.
 E. Conducted database searches to identify potential issues (i.e., fraud).
 F. None of the above.
34. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience processing immigration benefits?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to processing immigration benefits.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to processing immigration benefits, but do not have professional experience
 C. I reviewed immigration benefit applications for completeness.
 D. I searched/updated immigration related databases to review immigration applications.
 E. I interviewed applicants seeking immigration benefits.
 F. I adjudicated and wrote final determinations on applicants seeking immigration benefits.
 G. I represented immigration benefit applicants in legal proceedings.
 H. I wrote legal briefs or other written memoranda that advocated for sensitive and complex hearing or appeal cases involving immigration benefit eligibility.
 I. I wrote legal briefs in support of appeals from denial of immigration benefits.
35. Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience analyzing current procedures related to immigration benefits.
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to analyzing procedures for immigration benefits.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to analyzing procedures for immigration benefits, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I analyzed immigration benefit procedures to determine where inefficiencies exist.
 D. I analyzed immigration benefit procedures and made recommendations to management on ways to improve practices.
 E. I analyzed immigration benefit procedures and independently implemented changes that improved efficiency.
36. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience conducting a file review for decisions made on immigration benefit applications to ensure the final decision is in compliance with immigration laws, regulations and/or policies?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to reviewing immigration benefit decisions.
 B. I completed education and/or training on reviewing immigration benefit decisions, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I independently reviewed immigration benefit applications to ensure the adjudication decision complied with immigration laws, regulations and/or policies.
 D. I assisted applicants in appealing the final decision for immigration benefits sought based on the grounds of the decision not being compliant with immigration laws, regulations and/or policies.
 E. I counseled my superiors on cases where the final decision for immigration benefits was not in compliance with immigration laws, regulations and/or policies and recommended solutions to rectify the error.
37. Which activities have you performed pertaining to the prevention of immigration fraud?
 A. Analyzed anti-fraud and law enforcement check policies, procedures, and systems.
 B. Assisted Immigration officers and Specialists in data collection.
 C. Generated reports and documented trends in immigration fraud.
 D. Accessed data systems to extract information pertinent to background check protocols.
 E. Participated in inter-agency and/or intra-agency task forces to enhance U.S. national security and the integrity of the legal immigration system.
 F. Detected red-flags pertaining to immigration fraud while reviewing case files.
 G. None of the above.
38. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience drafting documents, such as memorandums and letters, for signature?
 A. I completed education and/or training related to drafting documents but do not have professional experience.
 B. I created templates used by others to draft these documents.
 C. I followed internal guidance and standards to draft these documents.
 D. I recommended improvements to the document creation process that were implemented in my organization.
 E. None of the above.
39. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience creating correspondence (e.g., customer notifications, response to inquiries)?
 A. I created correspondence following guidance (e.g., template, explicit directions from a superior).
 B. I created correspondence without guidance that was reviewed and approved before dissemination.
 C. I independently created correspondence that did not require higher-level review or approval.
 D. I trained others in proper creation of correspondence.
 E. I completed education and/or training related to creating correspondence, but do not have professional experience.
 F. I have no experience, training, or education creating correspondence.
40. Select the types of documents you have drafted related to immigration benefit applications.
 A. Denials
 B. Letters of Intent to Deny or Revoke
 C. Border Warning Notices
 D. Liability Evidence Records
 E. Withdrawals
 F. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
41. Do you have experience responding to email inquiries that required explaining procedures?
 A. Yes
 B. No
42. Select the written documents you have drafted pertaining to immigration law.
 A. Explanation of rules or regulations
 B. Response to applicants regarding pending status inquiries
 C. Reports regarding compliance
 D. Requests for documentation from applicants
 E. College papers pertaining to immigration law
 F. Legal research projects
 G. None of the above
43. Which choice best describes your highest level of experience writing documents that are consistent with adjudicative standards?
 A. I completed education and/or training related to writing documents consistent with adjudicative standards, but do not yet have professional experience.
 B. I drafted documents for senior level review and finalization.
 C. I independently researched and interpreted adjudicative standards in order to create logical, well organized correspondence related to benefit cases.
 D. I independently reviewed and approved others' documents to ensure standards were met.
 E. None of the above.
44. Which actions have you taken to prepare a response to inquiries pertaining to Nationality Laws?
 A. I reviewed Immigration Law documents to ensure I provided the correct response to customers and stakeholders.
 B. I used form letters and filled in pertinent items when corresponding with applicants or their representatives.
 C. I reviewed documents that my peers created to ensure accuracy.
 D. None of the above.
45. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience responding to congressional, interagency, or intra-agency inquiries/complaints (e.g., request for guidance on policy application, explanation of adjudication result)?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education responding to these types of inquiries/complaints.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to responding to these types of inquiries/complaints, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I drafted portions of responses for higher level review.
 D. I independently wrote responses or testimony to respond to inquiries/complaints.
 E. I was responsible for representing the agency in the overall response to inquiries/complaints.
46. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience writing a statement of reasons for an adverse determination (e.g., disqualifying applicants)?
 A. I have no education, training, or experience writing statements of reason.
 B. I completed education and/or training in writing statements of reason, but have not yet performed them on the job.
 C. I drafted adjudicative summaries to identify potential adverse determinations.
 D. I drafted a request for information to mitigate or disqualify applicants' eligibility.
 E. I issued notices of proposed actions to communicate adverse actions to the applicant.
 F. I issued final adverse determinations to applicants.
47. If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "pass," "satisfactory," or better?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. I am a Federal employee but have not received a performance rating.
 D. Not applicable. I am not a Federal employee.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
48. Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected