Position Title
Supervisory Wildland Firefighter (Fire Management Officer) - Direct Hire Authority
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
25-NPSFIRE-12788936-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 27, 2025 to Wednesday, September 10, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a United States Citizen?

For more information, review Employment of U.S Citizens.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.  
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Chester, CA
 B. Mineral, CA
 C. Redding, CA
 D. Susanville, CA
Assessment 1
Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet one of these basic requirements, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position. Your responses to the following minimum qualifications question, as well as the other questions in the questionnaire, in conjunction with the information provided in your completed application, will be evaluated to determine your qualifications for this position. Read all responses before making your selection. YOUR RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWERS YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Have you successfully obtained, and completed, work experience performing on-the-line (Primary/Rigorous) wildland fire suppression duties as a member of an organized fire suppression crew, or comparable unit, that utilized knowledge of wildland fire suppression, containment or control techniques, and practices under various conditions AND is this experience, to include specific dates and specific duties, documented in your work history/resume?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Have you successfully completed the Primary NWCG Core Requirements of either Task Force Leader (TFLD) AND Incident Commander Type 3 (ICT3) -OR- Prescribed Fire Burn Boss Type 2 (RXB2) OR Helibase Manager (HEBM) AND Incident Commander Type 3 (ICT3)?

A copy of the Incident Qualification and Certification System (IQCS) Master Record (or equivalent training document) which contains documented proof certification or attainment of this requirement must be attached to the application. RED CARDS ARE NOT ACCEPTABLE DOCUMENTATION.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience and requirements for the GS-12 level of this GS-0456 Supervisory Wildland Firefighter (Fire Management Officer) position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered unqualified and will not receive consideration for this position.

 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS/GW-11 level, or higher, in the Federal service, or equivalent, which includes the following: providing leadership and supervision for fire management staff and cooperators during preparedness and incident response assignments; assigning crews and wildland firefighters; supervising administrative program functions such as planning, budget formulation/execution; working closely with multiple cooperators and interagency partners, political boundaries, jurisdiction boundaries, multi-land base areas, partners and cooperators to develop inter- and intra-agency agreements; developing, reviewing and evaluating complex fire management plans for ecological soundness or consistency with land management goals and/or potentially adverse impacts to cultural and natural resources; conducting field inspections before and after prescribed or wildland fires to determine if resource objectives were achieved and/or evaluating the effectiveness of actions taken; analyzing the ecological role of fire and its use and/or exclusion, and smoke management; analyzing and/or applying fire management strategies in mobilization and/or dispatch coordination, fire prevention and education, training, logistics, equipment development and deployment, fire communication systems, suppression and preparedness or aviation; analyzing fuel conditions and determining appropriate fuel treatment methods (i.e. prescribed fire, mechanical, chemical, or biological treatments); performing land use planning and environmental compliance; evaluating prescribed burn plans or fire management plans to ensure fire containment is possible and identifying appropriate suppression contingencies if fire containment is not obtained. Implementing fire management planning, including evaluation of objective in resource management plans to develop strategies to accomplish these objectives; developing evaluation measures to determine if fire management activities.
 B. I do not meet or possess the specialized experience as described above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected