Position Title
Supervisory Property Disposal Specialist
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLADispSvcs-25-12774813-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 1, 2025 to Friday, August 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions and you:
• have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more OR
• retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more?

If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. Please also provide your disability letter which includes the combined service connected disability percentage rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15((SF-15 (PDF file)).  .

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for Schedule A Disability appointments?

If eligible, provide proof of disability with appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

For more information, review https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/individuals-with-disabilities
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and are applying a for a promotion?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).



 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and have held a position at or above the target grade for this position?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).


 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
are entitled to veterans preference?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you applying for an appointment under one of the  OPM Interchange agreements (i.e., NAF, TSA, U.S. Postal Service, FAA, VA, etc.) 
 
You must be on a permanent position that is equivalent to the grade level of this position or higher in the Federal Service.
 
If eligible, submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status and indicating the highest grade you have held. 
 
For more information, review Interchange Agreement with Other Merit Systems.
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. .

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 A. Yes
 B. No
15. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
16. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
17. Were you formerly employed as a federal civilian on a permanent competitive service appointment below the target grade of the advertised position, AND you have not been separated from federal employment for at least 1-year (from the date of this application) OR you did not receive at least a Fully Successful (or equivalent) performance rating in your most recent career/career-conditional position?

If eligible, submit:
A copy of your most recent separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting:
you held a career or career-conditional appointment (Tenure 1 or 2); AND
your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).
 A. Yes
 B. No
18. Were you formerly employed as a federal civilian on a permanent competitive service appointment at or above the target grade of the advertised position? 
                                                                                              OR
Were you formerly employed as a federal civilian on a permanent competitive service appointment below the target grade of the advertised position AND your date of separation was 1 or more years ago (from the date of your application) AND you received at least a Fully Successfully (or equivalent) rating of record in your most recent Career/Career-conditional position?   

If eligible, submit:
A copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting:
you held a career or career-conditional appointment (Tenure 1 or 2); AND
your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).
 
A copy of your performance rating from your most recent permanent federal competitive service position.  Your performance rating must reflect at least a Fully Successful (or equivalent) rating.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
2. Do you have a current (or last) performance rating of at least Fully Successful or the equivalent?
 A. Yes. I am a current Federal employee or have been within the previous 52 weeks and my most recent performance rating of record is at or above the Fully Successful or equivalent level.
 B. I am a current Federal employee but have not yet received a Federal performance rating.
 C. I am not a current Federal employee or have not been during the previous 52 weeks, therefore I do not possess a Federal performance rating.
 D. No. My performance rating is below the Fully Successful or equivalent.
3. Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) in the past 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement
Assessment 1
1. From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.

 A. I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Disposing of property through reutilization, transfer, donation, sales, abandonment and/or destruction or removal via service contract; Coordinating contractor and outsourcing needs, agreements, and performance monitoring; and Experience in the business of surplus property disposition to include principles of DEMIL property and DEMIL requirements, receiving, warehousing, reutilization, merchandising and marketing, business financial management, and human resource management.
 B. I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.
In this part you will respond to questions about your experience as it relates to the position for which you are applying. For each task question, choose the level description that best describes your experience and/or training. Your responses must be fully supported within the text of your resume. Failure to properly identify your experience may result in the lowering of your overall score and/or your disqualification for this position.
2. From the following responses, please select the statement that most accurately reflects your experience providing guidance to your organization on potential uses of excess/surplus property.

 A. I have worked with a customer on a particular program that could be used for their excess/surplus property.
 B. I have analyzed multiple special programs to suggest innovative uses of excess/surplus property across a customer base.
 C. I assisted my supervisor with coordination through a special program POC to transfer or donate excess/surplus property.
 D. None of the above.
3. Please select the areas that best reflect your experience in ensuring that inventory auditable controls are met. (Select all that apply)

 A. I conduct reviews, analyses, and special studies of automated property disposal and supply database accounts.
 B. I evaluate inventory integrity and accuracy in our organizations disposal and supply system.
 C. I am responsible to account for excess personal property turned in by generators across multiple geographic locations.
 D. I ensure items physically counted are properly placed into correct storage locations.
 E. None of the above (If selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
4. This position will be responsible for the inventory metrics across a geographically dispersed workforce. From the following responses, please select the statement that most accurately reflects your experience with inventory measures and metrics.

 A. I am knowledgeable in researching inventory discrepancies for my site to ensure our inventory metrics are met.
 B. I have extensive experience researching my organization’s disposal and supply system in order to develop, maintain, and report on inventory metrics and measures for more than one worksite.
 C. I have been trained to pull inventory balances for our site from the disposal and supply system.
 D. None of the above.
5. Which of the following key areas have you had experience with project or program management? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Inventory Management
 B. Scrap Venture
 C. Reutilization Process
 D. Transfer Process
 E. Donation Process
 F. Foreign Military Sales
 G. Sales Process
 H. Contractor Oversight
 I. None of the above. (If selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
6. From the following responses, please select the statement that most accurately reflects your experience with evaluating demilitarization (DEMIL) procedures.

 A. I recommended the most cost effective manner of accomplishing DEMIL.
 B. I have ensured my supervisor is informed of any potential DEMIL issues.
 C. I have ensured DEMIL compliance with policy.
 D. None of the above.
7. From the following responses, please select the statement that most accurately reflects your experience with advising customers on disposal policies.

 A. I have reviewed customer turn in forms to ensure completeness with disposal policies.
 B. I have independently conducted briefings to customers on disposal services and policies.
 C. I have advised agencies and/or holding activities on the interpretation and use of disposal policies.
 D. None of the above.
8. From the following areas, select those that reflect your experience with overseeing the preparation of property for disposal in compliance with local, state and federal regulations? (Select all that apply.)

 A. I have ensured the proper storage of excess/surplus property.
 B. I have ensured the proper movement requirements of hazardous materials.
 C. I have overseen environmental issues with regards to property disposal at a site.
 D. I have ensured proper demilitarization procedures are followed.
 E. None of the above. (If selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
9. From the following responses, please select the statement that most accurately reflects your experience with improving the effectiveness and efficiency of disposal work operations.

 A. I worked on a group responsible for evaluating a disposal work operation within my site in order to make recommendations to improve effectiveness and efficiencies based on process improvement techniques.
 B. I have assisted a supervisor implement process improvement techniques within our disposal operations site based on a group study.
 C. I have analyzed business-based performance measures and contributed towards the development of new solutions and recommendations to enhance services.
 D. I have completed formal training in process improvement techniques.
 E. None of the above.
10. Incumbents will be responsible for managing and forming customer relationships. From the following responses, please select the statement that most accurately reflects your experience with customer relationships.

 A. I have assisted with developing unique marketing strategies and research to develop new customers and establish accurate property market value/demand.
 B. I have had experience briefing military units within my geographic area of responsibility on the services that may be provided in regards to disposal operations.
 C. I visit with my customers on a regular and routine basis, as well as provide guidance when needed.
 D. None of the above.
11. Which of the following key areas have you had experience with evaluating the most critical aspects of the disposal process? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Demilitarization of government property
 B. Regulatory/statutory requirements of hazardous waste disposal
 C. Processing of reports of survey
 D. Sales of excess/surplus Department of Defense property
 E. Reutilization, Transfer and Donation
 F. None of the above. (If selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
12. I have served as a point of contract for multiple sales contracts.

 A. Yes.
 B. No.
13. From the following responses, please select the statements that most accurately reflect your experience sales contracts. (Select all that apply.)

 A. I ensure my organization receives the proceeds or credits from the sale of surplus property.
 B. I have assisted with managing the financial accounts of property transactions and proceeds from sales.
 C. I have experience negotiating unique and/or complex sales contracts for a remote location.
 D. None of the above. (If selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
14. From the list below, select the response which corresponds to the highest level of education you have achieved. Education claimed may be verified upon selection. If you do not possess or unable to provide proof of education claimed, you may be found ineligible.

 A. Less than 2 Years of College
 B. Associate’s Degree OR Two Years College (successfully completed at least 60 semester or 90 quarter hours)
 C. Bachelor’s Degree OR Four Years College (successfully completed at least 120 semester or 180 quarter hours)
 D. Master’s Degree OR Above
15. Have you received an honorary or monetary award from your employer (government civilian, military, or private sector) during the last 3 years?

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected