Position Title
Biomedical Engineer
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-12810181-26-JAH Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 3, 2025 to Wednesday, October 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING. YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSES YOU SELECT.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: Biomedical Engineers must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with chapter 2, section D, paragraph 5a, this part.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
BASIC REQUIREMENTS - Biomedical Engineer GS-0858. Please choose the response that best describes your education and/or experience.
 Bachelor's degree or Higher in Engineering. To be creditable, the curriculum must be from a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET), as a professional engineering curriculum. Examples of acceptable engineering degrees include: Biomedical Engineering, Clinical Engineering, Bioengineering, Biomechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, and Biochemical Engineering. Titles may vary from educational institutions and change over time.
 Certification as a Certified Clinical Engineer (CCE) and a bachelors degree.
 I do not have a bachelor's degree or higher in Engineering or certification as a Certified Clinical Engineer (CCE) and a bachelors degree.


Grade Determinations. In addition to the basic requirements for employment listed above, the following education and experience criteria must be met when determining the grade.


QUALIFYING EDUCATION and/or EXPERIENCE for the Biomedical Engineer GS-0858-GS-07 (Entry level).

None beyond the basic requirements.

Assignment: Employees serve in an entry level biomedical engineer career development position. It is expected that biomedical engineers at the entry level receive ongoing guidance from more experienced staff members and perform assignments under close supervision.


3.
QUALIFYING EDUCATION and/or EXPERIENCE for the Biomedical Engineer GS-0858-GS-09 (Developmental Level 1). Please select the response that best describes your qualifications.

Assignment. Biomedical Engineers, at this developmental level, require direction on more complex tasks. Employees complete technical assignments in the engineering field, under the direction of a senior biomedical engineer and will be required to rotate through, and participate in, the operations of other hospital services. At the GS-9 grade level, employees function with oversight by a supervisor for more complex assignments.
 At least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS07 Biomedical Engineer Level.
 Master's degree in Biomedical Engineering, or a related field of study.
 Bachelor's degree, plus two full years of progressively higher level graduate education in a related field of study, provided your total background demonstrates the KSAs for the GS09 level, below.
 I do not meet any of the requirements listed above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Do you possess the following KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, AND ABILITIES for the Biomedical Engineer GS-0858-GS-09 (Developmental Level 1)?
Knowledge of the principles, theories, concepts, and practices of the Biomedical Engineering profession.
Ability to interpret relevant codes, regulations, guidelines, and standards, and make recommendations to ensure compliance with medical center programs.
Ability to understand the operational needs of clinical services in the health care system.
Ability to prepare material on current technical topics and trends, for presentation to other technical staff and mid-level hospital management, and the ability to keep abreast of changes in technology.
 Yes
 No


5.
QUALIFYING EDUCATION and/or EXPERIENCE for the Biomedical Engineer GS-0858-GS-11 (Developmental Level 2). Please select the response that best describes your qualifications.

Assignment. At the developmental level, employees function on a semi independent basis with limited oversight by senior biomedical engineers. They participate in medical device hazard investigations, to assure compliance with patient safety goals, the Safe Medical Devices Act (SMDA), TJC requirements, and assist in the development of an equipment management program at the medical center. Employees may lead medical technology deployments, directly support medical equipment, or participate in research projects.
 At least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 Biomedical Engineer Level.
 Ph.D., or equivalent doctoral degree in Biomedical Engineering, or a related field of engineering.
 Bachelor's degree, plus three full years of progressively higher level graduate education in a related field of study.
 I do not meet any of the requirements listed above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Do you possess the following KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, AND ABILITIES for the Biomedical Engineer GS-0858-GS-11 (Developmental Level 2)?
Ability to implement and/or sustain an equipment management or biomedical research program that meets The Joint Commission (TJC), National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), or other applicable regulatory requirements.
Ability to develop material for a continuing education program for clinical or research staff, that address the principles and application of medical technology, and/or biomedical theory used in healthcare.
Ability to advise staff on emerging medical technology, or research procedures, while keeping abreast of changes in such technology, and utilizing the information to solve biomedical engineering problems.
Knowledge of basic project management principles, as applied to the healthcare setting and medical equipment, and information system implementation.
 Yes
 No


7.
QUALIFYING EDUCATION and/or EXPERIENCE for the Biomedical Engineer GS-0858-GS-12 (Full Performance Level):

Do you have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level?
Specialized experience may include:
Participating in medical device hazard investigations, to assure compliance with patient safety goals, the Safe Medical Devices Act (SMDA), TJC requirements,
Assist in the development of an equipment management programs.
Leading medical technology deployments, directly support medical equipment, or participate in research projects.
OR,

Have you completed a post-doctoral research fellowship in the field of biomedical engineering?

Assignment. At the full performance level, employees work under general supervision, with wide latitude to exercise independent judgment. Drawing upon extended professional and technical experience, employees demonstrate an intimate understanding of complex clinical and biomedical subject matter. They serve as institutional resources, working extensively with clinical stakeholders, supporting clinical services by leading market research, technology assessments, integration planning, and implementation of both current and emerging medical technologies. The employee shares responsibility for managing the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), network security issues for medical systems, and the information communicated across these systems. Biomedical Engineers at the GS-12 grade level further support the clinical mission by contributing to the continuing education program for clinical staff, helping ensure safe and efficient healthcare delivery. Biomedical Engineers at the GS-12 grade level support the institution by assisting with capital asset and infrastructure planning, to help ensure successful strategic planning. They may collaborate frequently with contracting to execute judicious healthcare technology procurements. Within the Biomedical Engineering Department, the employee provides leadership that ensures high quality and responsive customer service is an integral component of biomedical engineering service delivery. They are highly effective communicators, capable of serving as subject matter experts directly supporting the life cycle management of clinical technology, to include ongoing service, system administration, training, and quality assurance. At this level, employees may assist in clinical research projects in the biomedical engineering field

Do you meet one of the above requirements?
 Yes
 No


8.
Do you possess the following KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, AND ABILITIES for the Biomedical Engineer GS-0858-GS-12 (Full Performance Level)?
Ability to conduct a medical equipment management or biomedical research program that is compliant with applicable healthcare standards and regulatory agencies.
Ability to develop a curriculum for a continuing education program, that address the safe and effective use of medical technology, and/or research devices.
Ability to manage a recall and safety alert program for medical devices, including medical device hazard investigations, to assure compliance with patient safety goals, SMDA, and [TJC] requirements.
Ability to conduct capital asset and infrastructure planning for medical equipment spanning initial concept, installation, and effective implementation of complex medical equipment.
Ability to function as the subject matter expert in the field of biomedical engineering, directly supporting specialized clinical technology, including service, system administration, training, quality assurance, and life-cycle management.
Ability to effectively advise clinical and administrative staff on medical technology, including existing and emerging technology, which addresses viability, long-term suitability, compatibility, and/or safety.
Knowledge of concepts related to computer based medical systems, networking protocols, and information security as it applies to medical technology within VHA.
Skill in communicating and working collaboratively with key stakeholders, including technical and professional staff at various levels of the organization.
Ability to apply project management principles to deployment of medical equipment and health information technologies.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙