Position Title
Child and Youth Program Specialist
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12781294 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 14, 2025 to Monday, September 1, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Conditions of Employment
1. I am willing and able to travel away from my duty location.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current CNIC and/or DOD Employee?

*If you answer yes to this question, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Personnel Action Report (PAR/SF-50) showing your status as a CNIC employee. Failure to provide documentation to support your claim may result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Child & Youth Specialist position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
1. Select the statement applicable to you.
 A. I have a bachelor's degree or higher in Early Childhood Education, Child Development, Elementary Education, Youth Recreation, Secondary Education or in a related field of study AND a minimum of 3 years of full-time experience working with children and/or youth in DOD Child and Youth Programs.
 B. I have a combination of education and experience e.g., courses equivalent to a major in a field (24 higher level semester hours) appropriate to the position (see above) AND a minimum of 3 years of full-time experience working with children and/or youth.
 C. I have none of the above.
2. How many years of experience do you have with programming and management in Child Development Centers (CDC), Family Child Care Homes (FCC/CDH), and/or School-age Care (SAC)/Youth Programs (YP)?
 A. I have 5+ years of experience at the director level within a Department of Defense (DoD) Child and Youth Program with one or more of the programs described above.
 B. I have 3+ years of experience at the mid-management level with similar titles/responsibilities (e.g., CYP Assistant Director; CYP T&C; CYP Training Specialist; Youth Sports and Fitness Coordinator; Assistant Youth Sports and Fitness Coordinator; Youth Sports, Fitness and Teen Coordinator; CYP Teen Coordinator) within a DoD Child and Youth Program with one or more of the programs described above.
 C. I have less than 3 years of experience at either the director or mid-management level in a Child and Youth Programs within a DoD Child and Youth Program with one or more of the programs described above.
 D. I have no experience as described above.
3. How many years of experience do you have conducting program evaluation reviews, inspections, and assist visits with DoD Programs?
 A. I have 3 or more years of experience as described above.
 B. I have less than 3 years of experience as described above.
 C. I have no experience as described above.
4. How many years of experience do you have working in management information systems and databases; analyzing information to ensure quality assurance?
 A. I have 3 or more years of experience as described above.
 B. I have less than 3 years of experience as described above.
 C. I have no experience as described above.
5. How many years of experience do you have with preparing documents such as point papers and presentations for senior military and civilian leadership?
 A. I have 3 or more years of experience as described above.
 B. I have less than 3 years of experience as described above.
 C. I have no experience as described above.
6. How many years of experience do you have with developing and implementing training?
 A. I have 3 or more years of experience as described above.
 B. I have less than 3 years of experience as described above.
 C. I have no experience as described above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected