Position Title
Information Technology Specialist (Operating Systems)
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OIT-IMP-12773439-SY Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 4, 2025 to Friday, August 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. In addition to the application and application questionnaire, this position requires a USA Hire online assessment, which measures critical general competencies required to perform the job. If you are required to take the USA Hire assessment, you will be emailed a unique URL to access the USA Hire system. The USA Hire online assessment must be completed within 48 hours, following the close of this announcement. You will have the opportunity to request a testing accommodation for the assessment should you have a disability covered under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). See the How to Apply and Next Steps within the Job Opportunity Announcement for additional details.

Do you acknowledge that you may be required to take an additional online USA Hire assessment, via an email link sent to you after completion of this application, and that failure to complete any portion of the assessment will remove your application from consideration?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that by not taking the additional required USA Hire assessment that I will be removed from further consideration.
2. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-14 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
4. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
5. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
6. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
The following questions will be used to determine whether or not you meet the Mandatory Basic Requirement for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
7. I have experience with attention to detail when performing work and been conscientious about attending to detail.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. I have experience with customer service as it pertains to working with clients and customers to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfying their expectations.
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. I have experience with communicating effectively orally. This includes making clear and convincing argument to individuals or groups including taking into account the audience and the nature of the information. Along with listening to others while observing visual cues and responding appropriately.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. I have experience problem solving which includes determining the accuracy and relevance of information. Along with using sound judgement to generate and evaluate alternatives and makes recommendation based on those findings.
 A. Yes
 B. No
The following question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
11. Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-14 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes developing new and proposed applications on the operating systems and recommending changes to ensure the functionality and stability of the operating environment; providing input in designing group policies and access control lists to ensure compatibility with organizational standards, business rules, and needs; providing strategic guidance on how the organization can protect their data by implementing cybersecurity measures that protect sensitive information, privacy rights and complies with relevant regulations and organizational requirements; assisting with server configuration (hardware and software), troubleshooting and maintenance to ensure confidentiality, integrity, and availability; assisting the system development life cycle by providing resources, tools, and expertise for each stage from initial planning and analysis to the design and development of systems and identifying potential risks and implementing continuous improvement strategies to ensure operating systems meet future business needs.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.?
Assessment 1
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
1. Indicate the extent of your experience reviewing monthly vulnerability scan reports for newly discovered vulnerabilities on information systems and network assets.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training in reviewing vulnerability scan reports, but I have not yet applied this training on the job.
 C. I have reviewed monthly vulnerability scan reports for newly discovered vulnerabilities on information systems and network assets, and have brought identified vulnerabilities to the attention of a supervisor or other senior individual (e.g., ISSO).
2. Indicate the extent of your experience defining information security requirements.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training in defining information security requirements, but I have not yet applied this training on the job.
 C. I have served as a member of a group tasked with defining information security requirements.
 D. I have led one or more teams tasked with defining comprehensive information security requirements.
 E. In addition to having led teams responsible for defining information security requirements, I have coordinated efforts to implement the new procedures.
3. Indicate the extent of your experience implementing higher-level information security requirements resulting from laws, regulations, or Presidential directives.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have followed the directions of a supervisor or other senior individual to apply higher-level information security requirements resulting from laws, regulations, or Presidential directives to an information system.
 C. I have independently followed guidance from an implementation plan resulting from laws, regulations, or Presidential directives to implement higher-level information security requirements for an information system.
 D. I have created implementation plans and led teams to implement higher-level information security requirements resulting from laws, regulations, or Presidential directives for multiple information systems.
 E. I have held ultimate responsibility for ensuring that higher-level information security requirements resulting from laws, regulations, or Presidential directives were properly implemented.
4. Indicate the extent of your experience conducting information systems security certification and accreditation requirements and processes.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have conducted portions of information systems security certification and accreditation requirements/processes under the close guidance of a supervisor or other senior individual.
 C. I have independently carried out assigned tasks related to conducting information systems security certification and accreditation requirements/processes. My work was not typically subject to review.
 D. I have led a process resulting in a security certification or accreditation for an information system.
5. Indicate the extent of your experience developing plans to mitigate risks to information security system.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have developed short-term plans to mitigate standard risks to information security systems (e.g., physical security risks, network security risks).
 C. I have developed both short- and long-term plans to mitigate standard and nonstandard risks related to information security systems (e.g., people and policy security risks, operational security risks, application security risks, third-party relationship risks).
 D. I have developed a comprehensive risk mitigation plan spanning all aspects of an information security system. My plan incorporated processes for continuous long range review and improvement.
6. Indicate the extent of your experience maintaining relationships with personnel in other cybersecurity roles to identify and define current and future technologies to support information system security requirements.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have maintained relationships with individuals in cybersecurity roles in my work group or office, primarily in the completion of my regular job duties.
 C. I have maintained relationships with individuals in cybersecurity roles internal and external to my work group and office to exchange information, resolve problems, and identify and define current and future technologies to support information system security requirements.
 D. I have built and maintained relationships with individuals in cybersecurity roles external to my organization/agency to exchange information, resolve problems, and identify and define current and future technologies to support information system security requirements.
7. Indicate the number of the following cybersecurity certifications you currently possess: Security+, CISSP, CISM, CEH, PMP.

 A. I do not possess any of the listed certifications.
 B. I possess ONE of the listed certifications.
 C. I possess TWO of the listed certifications.
 D. I possess THREE of the listed certifications.
 E. I possess FOUR OR MORE of the listed certifications.
8. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of Federal regulations, mandates, and guidance from NIST, OMB, DHS, and other federal agencies related to cybersecurity.

 A. I have no knowledge of these guidelines.
 B. I have a basic understanding of most of the Federal regulations, mandates, and guidance from NIST, OMB, and DHS, but I have not applied this knowledge on the job.
 C. I have a working knowledge of the Federal regulations, mandates, and guidance from NIST, OMB, DHS, and other Federal agencies. I have applied this knowledge in a work setting.
 D. I have extensive knowledge of the Federal regulations, mandates, and guidance from NIST, OMB, DHS, and other Federal agencies. I have been responsible for reviewing compliance with all relevant sections.
9. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of hardware platforms (PCs, laptops, netbooks, tablets, smart phones) with regards to cybersecurity.
 A. I am aware of the current cybersecurity issues related to the primary hardware platform I work with.
 B. I maintain awareness of multiple hardware platform developments and hardware based security (e.g., encryption, cyber analytics, firewalling, intrusion prevention).
 C. In addition to maintaining awareness of multiple hardware platform developments and hardware-based security (e.g., encryption, cyber analytics, firewalling, intrusion prevention), I have evaluated such hardware and made recommendations related to adoption.
 D. I have no knowledge of these guidelines.
10. Indicate the extent of your experience performing life cycle management for information security assets.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others with one or more aspects of life cycle management for information security assets.
 C. I have been responsible for tracking an information security asset throughout its entire life cycle.
 D. I have overseen life cycle management for several information security assets throughout the entire lifecycle. My processes included work flow, traceability, accountability, management authority, and separation of duties.
11. Indicate the extent of your experience managing projects of varying scope.
 A. Under the close guidance of others, I have developed project plans (for example, set timelines, established metrics, identified necessary resources).
 B. I have independently managed one or more projects that were limited in scope. I have had responsibility for setting timelines, establishing metrics, and identifying necessary resources.
 C. I have independently planned, implemented, and managed multiple projects that were broad in scope or were complex, involving multiple entities. I have had responsibility for ensuring that needed resources were provided, metrics were tracked, and goals were accomplished.
 D. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
12. Select the option that best describes your ability to communicate technical information and requirements in writing to nontechnical personnel.
 A. I have communicated routine or non-technical information informally with individuals within my own work group.
 B. I have communicated technical information and requirements informally with individuals within my own work group.
 C. I have prepared formal written reports on technical information for nontechnical personnel.
 D. I serve as an authority on technical information (e.g., cybersecurity) within my organization, and frequently create written reports for nontechnical audiences within my organization/agency, as well as for external groups.
 E. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
13. Indicate the extent of your experience communicating with all levels of personnel within and outside your organization.
 A. I have conferred with others in my work unit on an individual basis.
 B. I have communicated with others within my organization (for example, project managers, management) to resolve problems, prevent potential conflicts, and ensure technical and operational requirements were met as part of my regular job duties.
 C. I have communicated extensively with others within my organization (for example, project managers, senior management) to reach/build consensus on cybersecurity program issues of considerable consequence that have arisen.
 D. I have communicated extensively to present cybersecurity policy or program-related information or cybersecurity issues of considerable consequence or importance to groups within and outside my organization (for example, Government officials, senior management, other analysts, other agencies).
 E. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected