Position Title
MAINTENANCE WORKER (MVO)
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERH2509659828083HW Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 21, 2025 to Thursday, September 4, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
6
7
8
Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.
1. Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. The duties of this position meet the criteria for compliance with Federal and Department of the Army Drug Free Workplace Programs. Detection of the presence of drugs is warranted. This position is subject to a pre-employment screening, and random testing thereafter, to include testing based on reasonable suspicion and testing due to direct involvement with an on-duty accident. Are you willing to refrain from the use of illegal drugs and submit to a pre-employment drug screening and random testing thereafter to obtain and maintain employment in this position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. The duties of this position require the incumbent to possess or obtain and maintain a valid state Driver's License in one of the 50 U.S. states or possessions to operate vehicles. Do you currently possess or are you willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid license to comply with the requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. This position has a requirement to lift up 50 to 75 pounds, and occasionally up to 100 pounds in the regular performance of duties. Are you willing and able to meet the lifting requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. This position requires you to obtain and maintain a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers boat operator license within 12 months (at the government's expense) after initial appointment. Are you willing to obtain and maintain a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers boat operator license within 12 months after initial appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. This position requires a Class A Commercial Driver's License (CDL) within 1 year of employment. Do you possess, or are you willing to obtain and maintain a CDL for the duration of the appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Maintenance Worker WG-4749-06/07/08 position with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
1. Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Maintenance Worker at the WG-06 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.

 A. I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex duties of a maintenance worker performing general maintenance and repair to facilities, wildlife habitat maintenance and/or restoration associated with trade areas such as: fabrication, carpentry, plumbing, painting, and general building maintenance. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 B. I have the ability to perform the full range of maintenance worker associated to carpentry and painting trades. I am skilled in basic math skills, repairing and installing task such as measure, cut and construct or make carpentry repair; make determination of materials/equipment used for repairs and/or installation; pre-paring various surfaces and/or equipment prior to the painting process; select and utilizing both hand and power tools; and the handling of hazardous material. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 C. I have the ability to perform common maintenance and construction tasks. I have the ability to operate common hand tools and measuring devices of the carpentry, or painting trades to perform simple maintenance tasks. In addition, I have the ability to operate motor vehicle, transport equipment/material to job site in preparation of work and clean-up after completion of the work assignment. I have the ability to work under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 D. I have the ability to perform simple duties of a maintenance worker and/or received training. I have assisted a journey worker in preparing the work area by getting tools and supplies, carrying materials, and lifting and holding material in place during installation. I have the skills to use basic hand tools and can follow verbal instructions.
 E. I do not possess the abilities described above.
2. Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Maintenance Worker at the WG-07 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.

 A. I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Maintenance Worker tasks including performing fabrication, carpentry, plumbing, painting, and motor vehicle operation in support of project and public use facilities. I am skilled in the use and operation of common hand and power tools, equipment, and measuring devices of the carpentry, plumbing, and painting trades to detect all types of deficiencies and perform a variety of preventive maintenance work for buildings, equipment, and facilities. I am also skilled in the operation and maintenance of a motor vehicle. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 B. I have the ability to perform the full range of Maintenance Worker tasks including performing carpentry, plumbing, painting, and motor vehicle operation in support of facility maintenance projects. I am skilled in the use and operation of common hand and power tools, equipment, and measuring devices of the carpentry, plumbing, and painting trades to detect common deficiencies and perform simple preventive maintenance work for buildings, equipment, and facilities. I am also skilled in the operation and maintenance of a motor vehicle. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 C. I have the ability to perform common Maintenance Worker tasks. I am skilled in the use and operation of common hand and power tools, equipment, and/or measuring devices of the carpentry, plumbing, and/or painting trades. I have the ability to detect simple deficiencies and perform simple preventive maintenance tasks. I have the ability to work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure are properly performed.
 D. I am able to perform the simple Maintenance Worker tasks or I have received training on the use of basic hand and power tools, equipment, and measuring devices of the carpentry, plumbing, and painting trades.
 E. I do not possess the abilities described above.
3. Select the one statement that best describes your highest level of experience as it relates to your ability to perform the duties of the Maintenance Worker, WG-4749-08 position.

 A. I have the ability to independently construct, maintain, and repair various public use facilities to include carpentry work, operating painting equipment and machinery, buildings, etc. I am able to maintain grounds and buildings, to include mixing and pouring concrete, repairing doors, windows, gutters, roofs, plumbing systems, and operating and maintaining equipment and vehicles such as log broncs, trenchers, arc welders, cutting torches, pump equipment, tractors, plows, loaders, backhoes, 5-ton trucks, and boats. I am consulted by other employees in difficult situations regarding the duties listed above.
 B. I have the ability to assist with construction, maintenance and repair various public use facilities to include carpentry work, painting, and repair of machinery, buildings, tools, equipment, etc. I am able to maintain grounds and buildings, to include repairing doors, windows, gutters, and roofs. I am able to assist in the maintenance of equipment and vehicles such as log broncs, trenchers, arc welders, cutting torches, pump equipment, tractors, plows, loaders, backhoes, 5-ton trucks, and boats.
 C. I have the ability to perform the majority of the following maintenance worker tasks under normal supervision: painting, carpentry, and plumbing repairs. I have the ability to independently construct, maintain and repair various public use facilities to include carpentry work, painting operating equipment and machinery, buildings, etc. I have the ability to maintain grounds and buildings to mowing, trimming shrubs, and performing minor maintenance on buildings.
 D. I have the ability to perform simple routine maintenance on buildings and grounds to include clearing refuse, cleaning facilities, and operating lawnmowers.
 E. I do not possess the abilities described above.
4. Your responses to the Announcement and Occupational Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected