Position Title
INTERDISCIPLINARY
Agency
Defense Information Systems Agency
Announcement Number
CES-DISA-12785371-25CB Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, August 26, 2025 to Thursday, September 4, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following section is used to determine your eligibility for appointment in the Federal Government or Status for referral consideration. Please indicate by your responses all categories of eligibilities for which you would like to be considered. You will only be considered under eligibilities that you select. If you are not able to select at least one of the eligibilities below, you are not eligible to be considered for this position.

NOTE: You must submit the required documentation to verify EACH eligibility you select. Failure to provide the required documents will render you not eligible for consideration.

See instructions under the "How to Apply" tab for submitting documentation.
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current DoD employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 
NOTE 1:  If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 
NOTE 2:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 
NOTE 1:  If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 
NOTE 2:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. 
NOTE 1:  If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade. 
NOTE 2:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. To exercise your PPP application based preference as a Military Reserve and National Guard Technician, Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Receiving Disability Retirement, or Retained Grade Preference Eligible under this vacancy announcement, you must have appointment eligibility under one of the following authorities and submit the appropriate, required documentation to verify your eligibility. Please select one or more eligibilities that apply to you.
 A. I am a current Federal career or career-conditional employee. Click here for more information: https://www.dfas.mil/careers/howtoapply/vacancyannouncement/appointment-eligibility.html#CFPFE
 B. I am currently serving under a VRA Appointment. Please provide your most recent SF-50.
 C. I am currently serving under a Schedule A appointment for the disabled. Click here for more information: https://www.dfas.mil/careers/howtoapply/vacancyannouncement/appointment-eligibility.html#IWD
 D. I have reinstatement eligibility. Click here for more information: https://www.dfas.mil/careers/howtoapply/vacancyannouncement/appointment-eligibility.html#CFPFE
 E. I have Military Spouse appointment eligibility. Click here for more information: https://www.fedshirevets.gov/job-seekers/special-hiring-authorities/family-members/
 F. I am eligible for Noncompetitive appointment of Certain Former Overseas Employees. Click here for more information: https://www.dfas.mil/careers/howtoapply/vacancyannouncement/appointment-eligibility.html#MSFME
 G. I have competitive service eligibility based on employment under other merit systems as prescribed by an applicable OPM interchange agreement. Click here for more information: https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=InterchangeAgreementsWithOtherMeritSystems
 H. I do not claim Priority Placement Program Preference.
2. Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0854 - Computer Engineering
 B. 0855 - Electronics Engineering
 C. 1550 - Computer Science
3. Are you a retired Federal employee receiving an annuity from the Office of Personnel Management? NOTE: If you answered yes to this question, attach a copy of your retirement Standard Form 50 to your application.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former (within last five-years) Executive Branch political appointee; Schedule C excepted service appointee (confidential, policy or transitional role), or non-career or limited appointee in the Senior Executive Service (SES)?

Agencies must request OPM approval to appoint the following current or former (within five-years) Executive Branch political appointees to permanent competitive service, non-political excepted service, or career SES positions:
https://www.opm.gov/FAQs/QA.aspx?fid=023f2059-dff7-4307-89b4-c553c218af1d&pid=08248d29-d26e-44b6-9988-57655358d509
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Do you have any relatives working for the Agency for which you are applying?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. If you answered yes to the previous question, please provide the name, relationship, organization employed within, and location if known.
7. If you were recommended to apply for this position by a current DISA employee, please indicate the name of that employee.
8. Are you a current employee of the Agency for which you are applying?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Please accurately identify your level of training or experience when completing this questionnaire. Your responses will be evaluated and verified based on your submitted resume. Ensure that your resume accurately describes the level of education and/or experience claimed in the assessment questionnaire. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. By continuing in the application process, I acknowledge that my self-assessment questionnaire score may be reduced, and I may lose consideration for this position if the work experience described in my resume does not support my responses to the assessment questionnaire.
1. Computer Scientist (GG-1550): Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a Computer Scientist. Make sure the response you select is supported by your resume and transcripts. NOTE: You must submit copies of your transcripts, failure to provide transcripts may render you ineligible for the position.
 A. I have a Bachelor's or higher degree in Computer Science.
 B. I have a Bachelor's or higher degree with 30 semester hours (or 45 quarter hours) in a combination of mathematics, statistics, and computer science. At least 15 of the 30 semester hours (or 23 of the 45 quarter hours) must have included any combination of statistics and mathematics that included differential and integral calculus.
 C. I do not have a Bachelor's or higher degree in Computer Science or a Bachelor's or higher degree with a combination of 30 semester hours (or 45 quarter hours) in mathematics, statistics, and computer science as described above.
2. Computer Engineer (GG-0854) or Electronics Engineer (GG-0855): Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a Computer Engineer or Electronics Engineer. Make sure the response you select is supported by your resume and transcripts. NOTE: You must submit copies of your transcripts, failure to provide transcripts may render you ineligible for the position.
 A. I have a four-year Professional engineering degree. To be acceptable, the curriculum must: (1) be in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; or (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics.
 B. Professional registration or licensure-I possess a current registration as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a professional engineer by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico.
 C. Written Test- Evidence of having successfully passed the Engineer-in-Training (EIT) examination, or the written test required for professional registration, which is administered by the Boards of Engineering Examiners in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico.
 D. Specified academic courses--Successful completion of at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and in engineering that included the courses specified in "A". The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of a professional engineering curriculum.
 E. Related curriculum -- Successful completion of a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field, e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, may be accepted in lieu of a bachelor’s degree in engineering, provided the applicant has had at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance.) With this criteria, applicants also need verification of employment from a supervisor stating you have performed professional engineering duties.)
 F. I do not have a degree or a combination of education and experience as described above.
3. For the GG-14, your resume must describe at least one year of experience that demonstrates the competencies necessary for immediate success in the position.   Experience refers to any paid or unpaid experience, including volunteer work and Military service, that would be considered equivalent to work normally performed at the next lower grade level in the federal service.
 A. I have at least one year of applicable experience that demonstrates the competencies necessary for immediate success in this position at the GG-14 and that would be considered equivalent to work normally performed at the next lower grade level in the federal service. My resume clearly demonstrates my qualifying experience using technical concepts, project management principles, and technologies such as Software Defined Networks (SDN), Wave Division Multiplexing (WDM) or other such emerging technologies to develop net-centric solutions and provide technical guidance to support Department of Defense’s (DoD) global mission.
 B. I do not meet any of the above requirements.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. Do you certify, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.)? Do you understand that the information provided may be investigated? Do you understand that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with your application may be grounds for not hiring you or for firing you after you begin work? Do you also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected