Position Title
Supervisory NBE/BE (LB Team Lead) with emphasis in Capital Markets, NB-0570-VII
Agency
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
Announcement Number
MP-LB-LJ-25-5445-12796581 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 12, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current OCC employee on a permanent appointment (includes rotational positions) in the Excepted Service or Competitive Service who has not held the band/grade level of the position being advertised?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current OCC employee on a permanent appointment (includes rotational positions) in the Excepted Service or Competitive Service who has held the band/grade level and promotion potential of the position being advertised?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current OCC employee?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Not Applicable
2. May we contact your current supervisor for a reference?
 A. Yes
 B. No
If you are an annuitant, your salary or annuity may be reduced upon employment.
3. If you are among the best-qualified applicants referred for consideration, you may be required to complete one (or more) job-related structured interviews and assessments. The disclosure of structured interview questions and assessment questions undermines merit-based selection processes.

Applicants are expressly prohibited from disclosing, publishing, reproducing, posting, or transmitting the content of the structured interview questions and assessments in whole or in part, in any form or by any means, oral or written, electronic or mechanical, for any purpose1.
Applicants who are not willing to abide by these conditions will NOT be able to participate in the selection process.
If an applicant is found to have violated this agreement, they will be disqualified.
If an applicant is a current OCC employee or becomes an OCC employee and is found to have violated this agreement, they may be subject to disciplinary action up to and including removal.

I agree to comply with the above statement:
 A. Yes
 B. No
1"These provisions are consistent with and do not supersede, conflict with, or otherwise alter the employee obligations, rights, or liabilities created by existing statute or Executive order relating to (1) classified information, (2) communications to Congress, (3) the reporting to an Inspector General or the Office of Special Counsel of a violation of any law, rule, or regulation, or mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to public health or safety, or (4) any other whistleblower protection. The definitions, requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions, and liabilities created by controlling Executive orders and statutory provisions are incorporated into this agreement and are controlling." This agreement, policy or form (as applicable) does not prohibit or restrict "an employee or applicant for employment from disclosing to Congress, the Special Counsel, the Inspector General of an agency, or any other agency component responsible for internal investigation or review any information that relates to any violation of any law, rule, or regulation, or mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to public health or safety, or any other whistleblower protection." 5 U.S.C. § 2302(b)(13).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.

Your answers to the following questions should reflect the qualifications you possess, or expect to possess, within 30 calendar days after the closing date of the announcement.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Are you a current OCC employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the NB-VI level, as described in the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement? Please review the announcement carefully before responding.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I understand that my resume must contain sufficient information to show that I meet the minimum qualification requirements, and that to ensure I receive any credit for relevant work experience, my resume should include the start and end dates for each job held (month and year), number of hours worked per week, and a description of duties performed in each job.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. List the position titles, grade levels (if federal service), dates (month/day/year), and number of hours per week for each position held that meets the one year specialized experience requirement. Please make sure your resume adequately describes your job responsibilities for each position listed.

5. Which of the following liquidity functions of banks have you assessed? Select all that apply.
 A. Cash Flow Forecasting
 B. Contingency Fund Planning
 C. Evaluation of Deposits Behavior
 D. Evaluation of Non-Deposit Funding Sources
 E. Liquidity Stress Testing
 F. Monetization of Assets
 G. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the only response selected for this item)
6. Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of experience evaluating or implementing policies, procedures, or practices related to risk management of capital markets activities of banks or other financial services providers?
 A. I have no experience evaluating or implementing policies, procedures, or practices related to the risk management of capital markets.
 B. I have limited experience evaluating or implementing policies, procedures, or practices related to the risk management of capital markets. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 C. I have independently evaluated or implemented policies, procedures, or practices related to the risk management of capital markets activities across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 D. I am considered an expert in the evaluation or implementation of policies, procedures, or practices related to the risk management of capital markets activities. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or superiors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.
7. Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of experience evaluating the impact of changes in interest rates on earnings and economic value (i.e., the value of assets less the value of liabilities)?
 A. I have no training or experience evaluating the impact of changes in interest rates.
 B. I have training but no experience evaluating the impact of changes in interest rates.
 C. I have experience evaluating the impact of changes in interest rates with direct supervision.
 D. I have experience evaluating the impact of changes in interest rates with little or no supervision.
 E. I have experience evaluating the impact of changes in interest rates independently.
 F. I have led the evaluation of the impact of changes in interest rates.
 G. I am considered an expert in evaluating the impact of changes in interest rates and am normally the person consulted by others to assist them because of my expertise in evaluating the impact of changes in interest rates on earnings and economic value.
8. Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of experience advising on or executing organizational priorities?
 A. I have no training or experience advising on or executing organizational priorities.
 B. I have training but no experience advising on or executing organizational priorities.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed this task independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in completing this task because of my expertise.
9. Select the response that best describes your experience utilizing new ideas and innovations to improve processes, predict likely impacts on supervisory strategies and/or supervision initiatives.
 A. I have not had any education, training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task.
 C. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review of a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
10. Select the response that best describes your experience conducting analysis and reviewing models to develop banking supervisory strategies.
 A. I have experience in performing this task and am considered an expert; I advise and instruct others in carrying out this task on a regular basis; I am consulted by my colleagues and /or superiors to carry out this task in unusually complex situations.
 B. I have experience in performing this task independently across a wide range of situations; I have assisted others in carryout out this task; I seek guidance only in unusually complex situations.
 C. I have experience performing this task in routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 D. I have had exposure to this task but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 E. I do not have experience in performing this task.
11. I have experience performing the following tasks:
(Select all that apply)
 A. I have led a staff.
 B. I have developed or trained personnel.
 C. I have motivated a group or staff to accomplish goals.
 D. I have managed a performance based work environment.
 E. I have developed strategies to build and maintain the analytical expertise needed to fulfill responsibilities.
 F. I have established annual performance plans and provided ongoing performance feedback and formal performance evaluations to employees.
 G. I have formally mentored junior or less experienced employees.
 H. I have interviewed and/or made selections to hire, promote, or reassign employees.
 I. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the only response selected for this item).
12. Which of the following supervisory tasks best describes your experience? 
(Select all that apply)
 A. Plan, assign and delegate work to subordinate staff.
 B. Advise, counsel, and instruct employees on work, administrative and training needs and providing constructive feedback for development.
 C. Hear and resolve grievance or serious employee complaints.
 D. Communicate performance expectations to employees and provide feedback.
 E. Review the work of other team or section members.
 F. Set short-term and long-term work priorities for team or section members.
 G. Interview job candidates for position vacancies.
 H. Resolve formal complaints and conflicts among employees to minimize any negative impacts within a program or division.
 I. Identify methods to improve staff productivity within a program.
 J. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the only response selected for this item).
13. Which of the following types of information related to the financial or technology services industry have you communicated orally? (Select all that apply)
 A. Adverse or critical review findings to board, management, or department heads
 B. Favorable consulting, examination, or audit conclusions to board or executive management
 C. Presentations to banker forums, community groups, industry groups, or trade associations
 D. Training presentations to workgroup or department
 E. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the only response selected for this item)
14. Select the response that best describes your experience presenting research or analytical findings to senior banking or regulatory officials.
 A. I have supervised and/or I have trained others in presenting research or analytical findings to senior banking or regulatory officials, and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert in presenting research or analytical findings to senior banking or regulatory officials.
 B. I have presented research or analytical findings to senior or executive level banking or regulatory officials as a regular part of the job, independently and usually with limited review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 C. I have presented research or analytical findings to senior or executive level banking or regulatory officials under oversight of a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have presented research or analytical findings to mid-level banking or regulatory officials.
 E. I do not have experience in performing this task.
15. Which of the following types of documents (e.g., narrative, conclusion, summary) have you written as part of your work related to the financial or technology services industry? (Select all that apply)
 A. Audit reports
 B. Board or senior-level management memos (e.g., risk management reports, internal compliance reports)
 C. Policies
 D. Reports assessing the condition, operation, or risk of a financial or technology services provider
 E. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the only response selected for this item)
16. Select the response that best describes your experience preparing written materials to communicate with external audiences.
 A. I have supervised and/or I have trained others in preparing written materials to communicate with external audiences, and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for preparing written materials to communicate with external audiences.
 B. I have prepared written materials to communicate with external audiences as a regular part of the job, independently and usually with limited review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 C. I have prepared written materials to communicate with external audiences under oversight of a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have periodically assisted in preparing written materials to communicate with external audiences, but this task has not been a regular part of the job.
 E. I do not have experience in performing this task.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
17. Your ratings in this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify or exaggerate your experience level may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency, if selected. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning; 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy; and 3) have verified that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability as reflected in your resume.

Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and are supported in my resume
No, I do not accept this agreement and I no longer wish to be considered for this position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
By clicking "Next" (below), I acknowledge that OCC ethics standards generally prohibit employees, their spouses, and minor children (as defined by state law) from holding securities, such as stocks and bonds, of banks, savings associations, or their affiliates, such as bank holding companies. If I am selected for and choose to accept this position, I understand that I, my spouse, and minor children will be expected to divest any securities prohibited by OCC ethics standards. 

 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected