Position Title
Supervisory Consumer Safety Officer/Supervisory Veterinary Medical Officer (Frontline Supervisor)
Agency
Food Safety and Inspection Service
Announcement Number
FSIS-25-MMP-12759333-JG Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 10, 2025 to Wednesday, July 16, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. Your answers will be used to determine your eligibility to apply to this job opportunity announcement. You will be considered under the eligibility option(s) to which you answer YES. Select YES to all eligibility options for which you want to be considered. If you respond NO to meeting the criteria for all the eligibilities, you will not be considered for the position(s) under this announcement.

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration for EACH selected eligibility. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration.
1. Are you a current Food Safety and Inspection Service employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a Food Safety and Inspection Service employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment AND you have held or currently hold a position on a permanent basis in the competitive service with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. San Fernando, CA
 B. Vernon, CA
 C. Indianapolis, IN
 D. Mississippi State, MS
 E. Wright City, MO
 F. Grand Island, NE
 G. Vineland, NJ
 H. Austin, TX
 I. Moorefield, WV
 J. Green Bay, WI
2. Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0696 - Consumer Safety
 B. 0701 - Veterinary Medical Science
3. I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. DOCUMENT UPLOADS - I understand that each document uploaded must be less than 5MB and in one of the following document formats: GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, PDF, TXT, or Word (.DOC or .DOCX). For more information see the "How to Apply" portion of the vacancy announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. How did you learn about this FSIS position? Please select all that apply.
 A. LinkedIn
 B. Social Media (such as Facebook, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Job Finder Site (such as Indeed, Monster, etc.)
 D. Job Board from School, College, University, or Alumni Organization (e.g., Handshake, Symplicity, 12Twenty, Other)
 E. Local Billboard
 F. FSIS-Sponsored Job Fair, Career Fair, or Information Session/Event
 G. School-Sponsored Job Fair, Career Fair, or Information Session/Event Sponsored by a School, College, University, or Alumni Organization
 H. FSIS Employee
 I. USDA Employee
 J. Friend, Family Member, or non-FSIS or non-USDA Coworker
 K. USAJobs Search
 L. Other
7. Please share any additional details about how you learned about this position, especially if you selected "Other" in the previous question. If nothing to add, enter "N/A".
8. Potential Variation in Shift, Duty Location, and Amount of Travel:

Vacancy shift, duty location, and amount of travel may be frequent. I am willing to accept a position that includes the following (select all that apply):
 A. 1st Shift
 B. 2nd Shift
 C. 3rd Shift
 D. Rotating Shifts
 E. Varying shifts with frequent travel (50%-75% of the time)
 F. Varying shifts with very frequent travel (76% or more of the time)
9. 2-PAGE LIMIT ACKNOWLEDGEMENT - I understand that there is a 2-page limit on resume length. Only the first two pages will be reviewed for qualification determination for resumes longer than two pages. For more information on what to include in your resume, see the "Required Documents" section of the vacancy announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
In the following sets of questions you will be asked to respond appropriately to your level of education, training and/or experience as it relates to this position. Please note this position is being advertised as an interdisciplinary position and may be filled in either of the job series/position titles listed. In addition to the specialized experience requirements, applicants must submit proof that they meet the educational requirements for at least one of the series described in the announcement. Applicants may only be appointed to job series/position titles for which they meet all experience and educational requirements.
Please respond to the question below as it relates to your education to qualify for the Consumer Safety Series, 0696.
1. Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess.

 A. I have completed 30 semester hours (45 quarter hours) of education in quality assurance or a bachelor?s or graduate/higher level degree in quality assurance or a related degree that included at least 30 semester hours in one or a combination of the following: consumer laws, biological sciences, food science, chemistry, pharmacy, physical sciences, food technology, nutrition, medical science, engineering, epidemiology, veterinary medical science, legal investigations, law enforcement, or related scientific fields that provided knowledge directly related to consumer safety officer work by the closing date of this announcement.
 B. I have completed at least 30 semester hours (45 quarter hours) in the fields of study described in paragraph A above AND have specialized experience that demonstrates my knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies necessary to enforce laws and regulations to protect consumers from food products that are defective, dangerous, impure, unwholesome, or improperly or deceptively labeled or packaged.
 C. I do not possess any of the required education and/or required experience, but with adequate training, I believe I could perform the duties of this position.
Please respond to the two questions below as they are related to your education to qualify for the Veterinary Medical Science Series, 0701.
2. Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess.

 A. I have a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVM) or equivalent degree, i.e., Veterinary Medical Doctor (VMD), obtained at a school or college of veterinary medicine accredited by the American Veterinary Medical Association Council on Education (AVMA). The AVMA web site, http://www.avma.org (external link), has a listing of all AVMA-accredited veterinary medical schools.
 B. I am a graduate of a foreign Veterinary Medical School. Graduates of foreign veterinary medical schools that are not accredited by the AVMA Council on Education (Refer to AVMA web site, http://www.avma.org for information about schools in this category) AND have proof of certification of my final transcript by the Educational Commission for Foreign Veterinary Graduates (ECFVG).
 C. I am a graduate of a foreign Veterinary Medical School. Graduates of foreign veterinary medical schools that are not accredited by the AVMA Council on Education (Refer to AVMA web site, http://www.avma.org for information about schools in this category) AND possess a permanent, full, and unrestricted license to practice veterinary medicine in a State, District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States that includes successful completion of the North American Veterinary Licensing Examination (NAVLE) or its predecessors, the National Board Examination (NBE) and the Clinical Competency Test (CCT).
 D. I am a graduate of a foreign Veterinary Medical School. Graduates of foreign veterinary medical schools that are not accredited by the AVMA Council on Education (Refer to AVMA web site, http://www.avma.org for information about schools in this category) AND have proof that the education obtained in a foreign veterinary medical program is equivalent to that gained in a veterinary medical program that is accredited by the American Veterinary Medical Association Council on Education. Under this provision, equivalency is established only if an AVMA-accredited veterinary medical school or college accepts the graduate's final transcript from the foreign veterinary medical school at full value for placement into an advanced degree, postgraduate educational program, or training program (e.g. residency or graduate program).
 E. I do not possess any of the required education listed above, but with adequate training, I believe I could perform the duties of this position.
3. Graduates of foreign veterinary medical programs must also provide proof of proficiency in the English language by successfully completing one of the nationally and internationally recognized examinations that incorporate assessments of reading, writing, listening, and speaking skills. From the responses below please select the type of examinations that assess mastery of the English language you have completed. NOTE: If you are not a graduate of a foreign veterinary medical program or are a current FSIS employee in the 0701 series PLEASE SELECT OPTION A.

 A. Not applicable as I did not attend a foreign veterinary medical program, or I am a current FSIS employee and provided a SF-50 with my application showing I have already been placed in the 0701 job series as a federal employee.
 B. I have passed the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) - Minimum scores for the TOEFL are 560 for the paper-based version; 220 for the computer-based version; or overall score of 83 for the internet-based version (including 26 or higher in speaking, 26 or higher in listening, and 17 or higher in writing). For the computer-based and paper-based test versions, applicants must also complete the Test of Spoken English (TSE) and the Test of Written English (TWE). Minimum required scores are 55 for the TSE and 5.5 for the TWE.
 C. I have passed Academic tests (listening, writing, and speaking) offered by the International English Language Testing System (IELTS). Applicants must achieve a minimum overall band score of 7.0, with at least 7.0 in speaking, 6.5 in listening, and 6.0 in writing.
 D. I have passed Academic tests (listening, writing, and speaking) offered by the Canadian Academic English Language Assessment (CAEL). Applicants must achieve a minimum overall band score of 70, with at least 60 in speaking, 60 in listening, and 50 in writing.
 E. None of the above.
4. Please select the answer that best reflects your qualifications for a GS-13 position.

 A. I have 1 year or more of specialized experience in the Federal service at GS-12. Specialized experience is that which demonstrates the ability to perform, plan, or manage complex veterinary services or complex food safety activities, and also includes experience applying and enforcing humane handling policies, practices, and regulations, and/or experience with good commercial practices.
 B. In addition to my DVM or equivalent degree, I have a PH.D in one of the area of specialization, including but not limited to, animal science, avian medicine, food safety, infectious diseases, veterinary clinical sciences, pathobiology, biomedical sciences, veterinary anatomy, veterinary preventive medicine, comparative biological sciences, epidemiology, veterinary parasitology, molecular veterinary biosciences, public health, microbiology, pathology, immunology, laboratory animal medicine, toxicology, wildlife, zoological animal medicine, or sciences related to the work of a veterinary medical officer position.
 C. In addition to my DVM or equivalent degree, I have successfully completion of three years of an internship, residency program, or fellowship training program in a discipline related to the position.
 D. In addition to my DVM or equivalent degree, I have completed all the requirements for Diplomat status in an ABVS-recognized veterinary specialty organization.
 E. None of the above.
5. Select all that apply. Please demonstrate your experience holding yourself and others accountable to complying with policies and procedures.

I have:

 A. Identified public health problems and/or food safety issues.
 B. Implemented program and organizational changes that affected frontline workforce.
 C. Incorporated new inspection programs and procedures with current inspection and/or enforcement activities.
 D. Verified the plant had validated its HACCP plan and that it met regulatory requirements.
 E. Ensured proper application of the Rules of Practice and oversaw the preparation of detailed verification plans for accurate execution.
 F. Utilized Agency information systems, reports, and analytical tools to oversee an establishment?s compliance with HACCP and other regulatory requirements.
 G. Assisted and reviewed decisions on establishment management appeals and/or complaints.
 H. Ensured proper implementation and maintenance of FSIS sampling initiatives.
 I. None of the above.
6. Select all that apply. Please describe your experience making sound, well-informed, and objective decisions to accomplish organizational goals.

I have:

 A. Directed the activities of personnel to conduct inquiries or assessments, document findings, and recommend action.
 B. Enhanced current inspection and/or enforcement activities by integrating new inspection programs and procedures.
 C. Provided technical advice to the Grant of Inspection applicant and coordinated with the District Office to manage the Grant of Inspection origination process.
 D. Verified the plant met regulatory requirements after validating its HACCP plan.
 E. Determined accurate execution of verification plans to ensure proper application of the Rules of Practice.
 F. Oversaw an establishment?s compliance with HACCP and other regulatory requirements through the use of Agency information systems, reports, and analytical tools.
 G. Ensured proper implementation and maintenance of FSIS sampling initiatives.
 H. None of the above.
7. Select all that apply. The following reflects my experience adapting to new information, changing conditions, or unexpected obstacles.

I have:

 A. Implemented program and organizational changes that affected the frontline workforce.
 B. Integrated new inspection programs and procedures with current inspection and/or enforcement activities.
 C. Verified the plant had validated it?s most up-to date HACCP plan and that it met regulatory requirements.
 D. Reviewed and evaluated program operations to identify newly developed deficiencies and made recommendations for corrective actions.
 E. None of the above.
8. Select all that apply. Please describe your experience behaving in an honest, fair, and ethical manner through consistency in actions.

I have:

 A. Ensured consistent public safety by conducting the review and on-going assessment of the domestic meat, poultry, and egg products inspection program.
 B. Identified public health problems and/or food safety issues.
 C. Implemented program and organizational changes that affected the frontline workforce.
 D. Provided technical advice to the Grant of Inspection applicant and coordinated with the District Office to manage the Grant of Inspection origination process.
 E. Reviewed and evaluated program operations to identify deficiencies and made recommendations for corrective actions.
 F. None of the above.
9. Select all that apply. The following reflects my experience treating others with courtesy, sensitivity, and respect.

I have:

 A. Supervised a cross-functional team to coordinate and implement public health regulatory activities.
 B. Raised concern over public health problems and/or food safety issues.
 C. Communicated with personnel to conduct inquiries or assessments, document findings, and recommend action.
 D. Provided guidance to personnel regarding changes or new procedures and clarified respective roles and responsibilities.
 E. Explained technical advice to the Grant of Inspection applicant and coordinated with the District Office to manage the Grant of Inspection origination process.
 F. Answered inquiries regarding proper application of the Rules of Practice and oversaw the preparation of detailed verification plans for accurate execution.
 G. Assisted in decisions on establishment management appeals and/or complaints.
 H. Recommended corrective actions regarding program operation deficiencies.
 I. None of the above.
10. Select all that apply. Please describe your work experience influencing, motivating, and challenging others.

I have:

 A. Influenced plants to adapt newly established operational policies, procedures and programs.
 B. Motivated a cross-functional team to coordinate and implement public health regulatory activities.
 C. Assisted in influencing decisions on establishment management appeals and/or complaints.
 D. Encouraged plant personnel in proper implementation and maintenance of FSIS sampling initiatives.
 E. None of the above.
11. Please select the answer that most closely describes your experience providing feedback on work performance.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have overseen and/or supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
12. Select all that apply. The following reflects my experience determining objectives, setting priorities, and delegating work.

I have:

 A. Supervised a cross-functional team to coordinate and implement public health regulatory activities.
 B. Directed the activities of personnel to conduct inquires or assessments, document findings, and recommend action.
 C. Provided guidance to personnel regarding changes or new procedures and clarified respective roles and responsibilities.
 D. None of the above.
13. Select all that apply. Please describe your experience perceiving the impact and implications of decisions and causing change to meet organizational goals.

I have:

 A. Implemented new operational policies, procedures and programs.
 B. Supervised cross-functional teams to implement public heath regulatory activities.
 C. Identified potential public health and/or food safety issues and decided on course of action to mitigate the problem.
 D. Implemented program and organizational changes, that affected the frontline workforce?s efficiency in meeting organizational goals.
 E. Provided guidance to personnel regarding changes or new procedures, clarifying respective roles and responsibilities to mitigate process failures.
 F. Reduced repeated complaints by assisting and reviewing decisions on establishment management appeals.
 G. Identified program operation deficiencies and made recommendations for corrective actions.
 H. None of the above.
14. Select all that apply. In my current and previous roles, I have had the following experience gathering new information and leading change.

I have:

 A. Supervised a cross-functional team to coordinate and implement new public health regulatory activities.
 B. Directed the activities of personnel to conduct new inquiries or assessments, document findings, and recommend action.
 C. Provided guidance to personnel regarding changes or new procedures and clarified respective roles and responsibilities.
 D. Made recommendations to the district for effectively implementing and improving programs and procedures.
 E. Oversaw the preparation of detailed verification plans for accuracy and inclusion of newly developed procedures and ensured proper application of the Rules of Practice.
 F. Ensured proper implementation and maintenance of improved FSIS sampling initiatives.
 G. None of the above.
15. Select all that apply. In my current and previous roles, I have had the following experience modeling high standards of ethics.

I have:

 A. Implemented operational policies, procedures and programs to enhance public safety.
 B. Collaborated with a cross-functional team to accurately coordinate and implement public health regulatory activities.
 C. Directed the activities of personnel to conduct inquiries or assessments, document findings, and recommend action.
 D. Clarified respective roles and responsibilities for personnel regarding changes or new procedures to mitigate new process deficiencies.
 E. Utilized my best judgement in assisting and reviewing decisions on establishment management appeals and/or complaints.
 F. Ensured proper implementation and maintenance of FSIS sampling initiatives.
 G. None of the above.
16. Select all that apply. The following reflects my work experience adapting leadership styles to a variety of situations.

I have:

 A. Directed the activities of personnel to conduct inquiries or assessments, document findings, and recommend action.
 B. Optimized and integrated new inspection programs and procedures with current inspection and/or enforcement activities.
 C. Provided guidance to personnel regarding changes or new procedures and clarified respective roles and responsibilities.
 D. Ensured proper application of the Rules of Practice and oversaw the preparation of detailed verification plans for accurate execution.
 E. Lead by example to ensure public safety through conducting the review and on-going assessment of the domestic meat, poultry, and egg products inspection program.
 F. Guided the frontline workforce to successful implementation of agency program and organizational changes.
 G. None of the above.
17. Select all that apply. In my current and previous roles, I have had the following experience planning, distributing, and coordinating the work assignments of others.

I have:

 A. Implemented in-plant operational policies, procedures and programs.
 B. Advised a cross-functional team to coordinate and implement public health regulatory activities.
 C. Directed the activities of personnel to conduct inquiries or assessments, document findings, and recommend action.
 D. Executed program and organizational changes that affected the frontline workforce.
 E. Integrated new inspection programs and procedures with current inspection and/or enforcement activities for improved process efficiency.
 F. Ensured proper application of the Rules of Practice and oversaw the preparation of detailed verification plans for accurate execution.
 G. Verified proper implementation and maintenance of FSIS sampling initiatives.
 H. None of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected