Position Title
Air Conditioning Equipment Mechanic (Electrical)
Agency
U.S. Army Joint Munitions Command
Announcement Number
MCGL-26-12829177-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, November 4, 2025 to Wednesday, November 19, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position requires you to possess Environmental Protection Agency certification types 1 and 2 or a Universal certification.  Do you possess an Environmental Protection Agency certification types 1 and 2 or a Universal certification?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Air Conditioning Equipment Mechanic (Electrician) position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Air Conditioning Equipment Mechanic (Electrician) duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex tasks performing the installation, operation, repair, and maintenance of the refrigeration and air conditioning trade. I have experience installing, troubleshooting, performing preventative maintenance and repairing heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) and Refrigeration equipment and controls. I am skilled in diagnosing multiple and compounding problems and I can locate and repair faulty equipment. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of tasks performing the installation, operation, repair, and maintenance of the refrigeration and air conditioning trade. I have experience installing, troubleshooting, performing preventative maintenance and repairing heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) and Refrigeration equipment and controls. I am skilled in locating and repairing faulty equipment. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common tasks including performing the installation, operation, repair, and maintenance of the refrigeration and air conditioning trade. I can install, troubleshoot, perform preventative maintenance, and repair heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) and Refrigeration equipment and controls. I work under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple installation, operation, repair, and maintenance of the refrigeration and air conditioning trade or I have received training on performing basic training on installation, repair, and maintenance of heating, ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration equipment.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
Failing to select a response will result in your application packet being removed from consideration.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙