Position Title
Lead NEPA Biologist
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-25-12809325-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 3, 2025 to Friday, October 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Department of Defense Employees (Non-Army)

You are eligible in this category if you currently work on a permanent* competitive service civilian appointment in any of the following Department of Defense (DOD) agencies:

•  U.S. Navy
•  U.S. Marine Corps
•  Department of the Air Force
•  Other Department of Defense Agency (e.g., WHS, DLA, DFAS, DISA, DODEA, Defense Commissary, etc.)

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1"). To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note(s):
*If you are currently working on a temporary or term appointment, or you are serving on active duty in the U.S. military service in any of the above agencies, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category unless you are serving on a Flexible Length Renewable Term (FLRT) Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

If you are currently working for a private sector company performing work related to a contract with a federal agency, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category

Are eligible to apply as a Current Department of Defense Employee (Non-Army)?
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


5.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


6.
Reinstatement

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:
Are a former Federal employee who previously attained career status (identified as Tenure I (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action); OR
Are a former Federal employee with veterans' preference who previously attained career-conditional status (identified as Tenure II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action); OR
Are a former Federal career-conditional employee (identified as Tenure II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action) without veterans' preference who separated from Government service within the past three years.
This eligibility also covers current permanent Federal employees when the area of consideration ("Who May Apply") does not include an option to apply as a current Federal employee. To verify your eligibility, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50 indicating Tenure I or II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) with your completed application.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50 with your completed application.

Are you eligible for Reinstatement?
 Yes
 No


7.
30 Percent or More Disabled Veterans

Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions and you:

• retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more OR
• have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, as follows:

• DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of discharge; member 4 copy of the DD Form 214 is preferable (Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.); AND
• A copy of a letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs, dated 1991 or later, certifying an OVERALL Service Connected Disability of 30% or more; OR
• DD Form 214, which reflects the character of service of "Retirement-Disability"; OR
• Certification document* which reflects your OVERALL service connected disability of 30% or more.
• The Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference is optional at the time of application.

The "certification" letter is a written document on an official letterhead of the appropriate military branch in which the veteran served, and contains at a minimum, the service member's: (1) military service dates including the expected discharge or release date; (2) expected character of service (i.e. honorable); (3) rank; and (4) type of discharge. The "certification" must be signed by, or by direction of, the adjutant, military personnel officer, or commander of the service member's unit or higher headquarters. The service member's military service dates are necessary in order to determine whether he or she meets the definition of ''veteran'' under 5 U.S.C. 2108(1) (Federal Register, 2016).

Useful Links

You may request copies of your military personnel records online.
You can obtain a copy of your DD-214 from the National Archives.
Standard Form (SF) 15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference
U.S. Office of Personnel Management's Veterans Employment
U.S. Department of Labor's Veterans' Preference Advisor

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

Are you a 30% or more Disabled Veteran?
 Yes
 No


8.
Postal Service/Peace Corps and Other Unique Authorities

You are eligible for this appointing authority if you meet any one of the following:
Postal Career Service/Postal Rate Commission - Eligible when serving under an appointment without time limitation, successfully completed a probationary period and has no break in service.
VISTA/ACTION Volunteer - Eligible within 1 year of having completed 12 months of community volunteer service under the Peace Corps Act or as a VISTA volunteer under the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964 or the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973.
Peace Corps - Eligible within 3 years after serving at not less than 36 months without a break in service of 3 days or more of continuous service under the Peace Corps. Foreign Service Officers and Employees - Present or former career officer or employee of the Foreign Service, appointed under authority of the Foreign Service Act of 1946, as amended.
Commissioned Corps of the Public Health Service - Eligible within 3 years after returning from overseas if at least 52 weeks of service in an appropriated fund position were completed. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration - Eligible within 3 years after returning from overseas if at least 52 weeks of service in an appropriated fund position were completed.
Panama Canal Commission - Eligible after at least 1 year of continuous employment under non- temporary appointment in the Panama Canal Commission located in the United States.
General Accounting Office - Eligible upon completion of 1 year of continuous service on a non- temporary appointment that began on or after 1 Oct 80.
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts - Current/former employees are eligible with completion of at least 1 year of continuous service under non-temporary appointment. Employees appointed to high level positions under 28 U.S.C. 603 or a position of confidential or policy-making nature is not eligible under this authority.
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR) - You are eligible under this authority if you completed at least 12 months of continuous service as an excepted service employee with SIGAR after December 16, 2014, or you ARE still employed with SIGAR on the date on which SIGAR terminates, whichever comes first.
Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of your proof of employment from the appropriate agency (i.e., personnel action, official letter verifying employment, etc.). For additional information on required documents, contact the point of contact on the job opportunity announcement.

Are you eligible under any of the listed authorities?
 Yes
 No


9.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 Yes
 No


2.
Financial Disclosure Statement OGE Form 450 is used to assist agencies and employees to avoid conflicts between duties and financial interest. This position requires pre-employment financial disclosure and annually thereafter in accordance with DoD Directive 5500-7-R. Are you willing to disclose your financial affiliations prior to employment and annually thereafter to obtain and maintain employment in this position?
 Yes
 No


3.
This is a Term position scheduled to last 2 years. A term position may be extended to a maximum of six years depending upon the needs of management. Are you available for term employment?
 Yes
 No


4.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 25% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 25% of the time?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Lead NEPA Biologist position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Lead NEPA Biologist at the GS-0401-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes courses equivalent to a major, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Lead NEPA Biologist at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes 1) preparing National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) documents, such as Environmental Impact Statements (EIS), Environmental Assessments (EA), Notices of Intent (NOI), Finding of No Significant Impact (FNSI), and Records of Decision (ROD); 2) coordinating with project managers and project delivery team members; and 3) ensuring regulatory compliance and coordinating with regulatory agencies.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙