Position Title
STATISTICIAN
Agency
Federal Trade Commission
Announcement Number
DE-12788642-26-BE Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 12, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND you: 

• have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more; OR,
• are retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more? 

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans Resources.  

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.  You must also submit the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. (1) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who has been issued orders for a permanent change of station (PCS)?  If yes, confirm you are indicated on the PCS orders; and that you:

• have been married to the military member on or prior to the date of your spouse's PCS orders;
• are relocating with your spouse to the new duty location; AND,
• have not previously been appointed using this authority under these orders. 

-OR- 

(2) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating of 100 percent at the time of retirement or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs? 

-OR- 

(3) Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources. 

To verify your eligibility for option 1 identified above, you must submit a copy of the PCS orders indicating you are authorized to relocate on those orders. 

To verify your eligibility for options 2 and 3 identified above, you must submit the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15 and all supporting documentation identified on that document (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; death certificate and documentation identifying marital status at the time of death; disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service, etc..
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. 

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND 
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND 
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.  

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?  

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources. 

To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
7
9
2. Would you accept a term appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before submitting your application.
1. Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the Minimum Education requirements for the Statistician position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement
 A. I have a degree: that included 15 semester hours in statistics (or in mathematics and statistics, provided at least 6 semester hours were in statistics), and 9 additional semester hours in one or more of the following: physical or biological sciences, medicine, education, or engineering; or in the social sciences including demography, history, economics, social welfare, geography, international relations, social or cultural anthropology, health sociology, political science, public administration, psychology, etc. Credit toward meeting statistical course requirements will be given for courses in which 50 percent of the course content appears to be statistical methods, e.g., courses that included studies in research methods in psychology or economics such as tests and measurements or business cycles, or courses in methods of processing mass statistical data such as tabulating methods or electronic data processing.
 B. I have a combination of education and experience -- courses as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. The experience should have included a full range of professional statistical work such as (a) sampling, (b)collecting, computing, and analyzing statistical data, and (c) applying statistical techniques such as measurement of central tendency, dispersion, skewness, sampling error, simple and multiple correlation, analysis of variance, and tests of significance.
 C. My education does not match the choices above.
2. Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the basic qualifications requirements of a Statistician, GS-1530-7. (See the "Qualifications" section of this announcement for the definition of specialized experience.)
 A. I qualify for this position at the GS-7 level because I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-5 level in the Federal service obtained in either the private or public sector, performing the tasks as detailed in the 'Qualifications' section of the announcement.
 B. I qualify for this position at the GS-7 level because I have year of graduate-level education directly related to the position or superior academic achievement in a curriculum that is qualifying for the position to be filled. Note on Superior academic achievement (S.A.A.).
 C. My experience and/or education do not match the choices above.
3. Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the basic qualifications requirements of a Statistician, GS-1530-9.
 A. I qualify for this position at the GS-9 level because I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-7 level in the Federal service obtained in either the private or public sector, performing the tasks as detailed in the 'Qualifications' section of the announcement.
 B. I qualify for this position at the GS-9 level because I have Two (2) years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master's degree or master's or equivalent graduate degree directly related to the position.
 C. My experience and/or education do not match the choices above.
4. From the list below, select the response(s) that describe your experience in orally communicating quantitative, qualitative, economic, or statistical analysis. (Select all that apply)
 A. I have presented statistical or economic problems, findings, or results in an undergraduate-level class setting.
 B. I have presented statistical or economic problems, findings, or results in graduate-level class setting.
 C. I have recommended solutions to statistical or economic problems in oral discussions with classmates or coworkers.
 D. I have explained statistical problems, findings, or results to a general or non-statistician or economist audience.
 E. None of the above.
5. From the list below, select the response(s) that describe your experience preparing written materials showing quantitative, qualitative, economic, or statistical analysis. (Select all that apply)
 A. I have prepared a PowerPoint presentation or other written output summarizing results for a class or job.
 B. I have written an undergraduate statistical or econometric research project paper.
 C. I have written a graduate statistical or econometric research project paper.
 D. I have written a published paper or report.
 E. None of the above.
6. Which of the following have you included in written materials or papers presenting statistical or economic analysis? (Select all that apply)
 A. I have prepared basic graphical representations (e.g., tables, bar graphs, pie charts) of data.
 B. I have prepared advanced graphical representations (e.g., contour plots, scatter plots) of data.
 C. I have prepared tables of regression results.
 D. None of the above
7. Which of the following have you included in written materials or papers presenting statistical or economic analysis. (Select all that apply)
 A. I have written descriptions describing processes of cleaning and transforming data to prepare for analysis.
 B. I have written descriptions identifying and documenting data limitations.
 C. I have written descriptions of regression results.
 D. None of the above
8. Which of the following describes your experience documenting computer programs used to prepare data for statistical or economic analysis?
 A. I have no experience documenting and annotating computer programs preparing data for statistical or economic analysis.
 B. I have experience documenting and annotating computer programs preparing data for statistical or economic analysis for an undergraduate or graduate class.
 C. I have experience documenting and annotating computer programs for statistical or economic analysis for a job.
 D. I have experience documenting and annotating computer programs for statistical or economic analysis in sufficient detail for a classmate or colleague to replicate my work.
9. Which of the following describes your experience researching, locating, and accessing government and other third-party data sources relevant to economic or statistical analysis?
 A. I have no experience researching, locating, and accessing government or other third-party data sources.
 B. I have researched, located, and accessed and downloaded government or other third-party data sources for use in economic or statistical analysis for a class or job.
 C. I have written automated scripts to access and download government and other third-party data sources for use in economic or statistical analysis.
10. Which of the following describes your experience preparing data for statistical, econometric, or graphical analysis by transforming or creating new variables?
 A. I have no experience preparing data for analysis by transforming or creating new variables.
 B. I have prepared data for analysis by transforming or creating new variables for a class or job.
 C. I have written programs and scripts in statistical packages to automate the transformation or creation of new variables.
11. Which of the following describes your experience conducting basic data quality checks to assure reliability before performing econometric or statistical analysis?
 A. I have no experience conducting basic data quality checks to assure reliability before
 B. I have conducted basic data quality checks to assure reliability before performing econometric or statistical analysis for a class or job.
 C. I have written programs and scripts in statistical packages to perform data quality checks before performing econometric or statistical analysis
12. Which of the following have you performed to maintain the accuracy and quality of data analysis? (Select all that apply)
 A. I have no experience performing tasks to maintain the accuracy and quality of data analysis.
 B. I have experience validating data (e.g., confirmed values are within a specified range)
 C. I have experience identifying outliers and other data anomalies.
 D. I have experience identifying data accuracy and quality issues and proposing solutions to deal with data limitations.
13. Which of the following describes your experience creating variables for data analysis from text or survey responses?
 A. I have no experience creating variables from text or survey responses.
 B. I have experience creating variables from text and survey responses for data analysis for a class or a job.
 C. I have experience writing programs or scripts in statistical packages to create variables from text or survey responses.
14. What statistical software packages and programming languages have you used to prepare data and perform data analysis? (Select all that apply)
 A. Microsoft Office (Excel, Access, etc.)
 B. STATA
 C. R studio
 D. Python
 E. Structured Query Language (SQL)
 F. None of the above
15. Which of the following best characterizes your experience using microeconomic theory to perform economic analysis?
 A. I have no educational or employment experience with microeconomic theory.
 B. I have educational or employment experience with microeconomic theory, but I have not used it to perform economic analysis.
 C. I have educational or employment experience with microeconomic theory, and I have used it to perform economic analysis for solving problems.
 D. I have educational or employment experience with microeconomic theory, and I have used it to perform economic analysis for related to industrial organization, labor, public, health, or environmental economics.
16. Which of the following best characterizes your experience using programming languages for preparing data for statistical or econometric analysis?
 A. I have a background in mathematics, statistics, or econometrics but minimal programming experience.
 B. I have experience writing code that summarizes and describes data clearly and accurately.
 C. I have experience writing code that automates tasks through loops or macros.
 D. None of the above.
17. Which of the following best characterizes your experience using programming languages to apply statistical and econometric methods appropriately?
 A. I have a background in mathematics, statistics, or econometrics but minimal programming experience.
 B. I have experience writing code that runs regressions.
 C. I have experience writing code that runs regressions, computes standard errors, and generates predictions.
 D. I have experience writing code that applies simulation or machine learning techniques.
 E. None of the above.
18. Which of the following best characterizes your experience writing programs that generate graphs, tables, and other data visualization output that accurately summarize the data.
 A. I have a background in mathematics, statistics, or econometrics but minimal programming experience.
 B. I have experience writing programs in software packages to generate graphs, tables, and other data visualization output but it has not been a regular part of my educational or employment background.
 C. I have regularly written programs in software packages to generate graphs, tables, and other data visualization output as part of my educational or employment background.
 D. I have written programs in software packages to generate graphs, tables, and other data visualization output for presentations and publications.
19. I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package.
 A. Yes
 B. No
20. By responding to this question, I acknowledge that I reviewed the "Required Documents" section of this announcement to determine which documents I need to provide in support of my application.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance.
21. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected