Position Title
Supervisory Recreation Specialist Auto Hobby/Bowling
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12816417 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 15, 2025 to Thursday, October 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
To qualify for this position you must possess the following: Undergraduate or Graduate Education with a major in general recreation, or one of the appropriate fields of recreation related to the position; or at least one year of specialized experience; or an equivalent combination of education and experience. Do you meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


2.

How many years of experience do you have performing a full range of supervisory duties?
 I have 5+ years of experience with the above.
 I have 4 - 5 years of experience with the above
 I have 3 - 4 years of experience with the above.
 I have less than 3 years of experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have that required planning, coordinating, publicizing, marketing and execution of programs and special events?
 I have 5+ years of experience with the above.
 I have 4 - 5 years of experience with the above.
 I have 3 - 4 years of experience with the above.
 I have less than 3 years of experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have that required program planning and leadership skills to devise and implement a leisure and social recreation program?
 I have 5+ years of experience with the above.
 I have 4 - 5 years of experience with the above.
 I have 3 - 4 years of experience with the above.
 I have less than 3 years of experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.(0 points)


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙