Position Title
Information Technology Specialist (SysAdmin)
Agency
Federal Emergency Management Agency
Announcement Number
FEMA-JD-12769068-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 23, 2025 to Friday, August 1, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)

Are you a current or former FEMA Stafford Act employee eligible under the Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)?

Current and former FEMA Stafford Act employees who can document 64 or more hours of paid time, per pay period, with no breaks in service* for 78 or more consecutive pay periods since August 1, 2014, are eligible to be considered for this Merit Promotion Job Opportunity Announcement. (*Note: A "break in service" is defined as 3 or more days in non-pay status, except as allowed under 5 CFR § 315.201(b)(3)(ii) for special circumstances such as military deployment, etc.).

To verify eligibility, you must submit: 
"Notice of DRRA Eligibility" provided by OCHCO.  If you believe you're eligible, but have not received your notice, please reach out to the HR Specialist listed in the announcement.
Your FEMA SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your appointment in the excepted service under the Stafford Act.  We recommend attaching a SF-50 which indicates your highest grade and step.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Current FEMA Employee

Are you a current FEMA employee who currently holds OR has previously held a permanent (not time limited) position in the competitive service?

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your permanent competitive status.  Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions.  You may need to submit more than one SF-50.  Your SF-50 must reflect:
Block 24 - Tenure:  1 - Permanent (career) or 2 - Conditional: AND
Block 34 - Position Occupied:  1 - Competitive Service
If you previously held a career or career conditional appointment, you must provide your current SF-50 and your SF-50 which shows competitive status eligibility.
Please do not submit an award SF-50, as it might not indicate your grade level and step.  
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. FEMA Employees Only Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)
Are you a current or former FEMA employee who is considered displaced or surplus (you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction in Force)?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, your most recent performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. How did you hear about this Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) job opportunity?
 A. USAJOBS
 B. FEMA's Social Media (Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Online Job board (Indeed, Zip Recruiter, etc.)
 D. FEMA.gov Careers Website
 E. FEMA Virtual Hiring Event
 F. FEMA On-Site Hiring Event
 G. College/University/Alumni Organization
 H. FEMA Employee Referral
 I. Other
2. Are you a retiree receiving a federal annuity (either military or civilian)? Or have you accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years? (Select all that apply.)
 A. Yes, I'm receiving a military annuity.
 B. Yes, I'm receiving a civilian annuity.
 C. Yes, I've received a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
 D. No, I am not receiving a federal annuity and have not accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
3. Are you a current FEMA employee?
 A. I'm a current FEMA Local Hire Employee
 B. I'm a current FEMA Reservist Employee
 C. I'm a current FEMA CORE Employee
 D. I'm a current FEMA PFT Employee
 E. I'm a current FEMA Senior Executive Service Employee
 F. I'm not a current FEMA Employee
4. Are you currently serving, or have served within the last five years, as a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) employee in the Executive Branch?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Please provide the following information regarding your political appointment(s): 1. Official Title of Position; 2. Type of Appointment (i.e. Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career SES); 3. Name of Agency; 4. Date Position began; and 5. Date Position ended. (NOTE: If you have never held a political appointment, please enter N/A.)
6. Within the past five years, have you received a buyout or payment through the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment Authority (VSIP) when separating from a federal position?
 A. No
 B. Yes, and I understand candidates who are reemployed with the federal government within five years after receiving a buyout or payment under VSIP are required to repay the entire amount of the incentive prior to their onboarding date.
7. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?

Select "Not Applicable" if this question does not apply to you.
 A. Yes
 B. No, but I have an exemption
 C. I am a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, and have NOT registered with the Selective Service System and do NOT have an exemption.
 D. Not Applicable
2. All FEMA employees are subject to 24-hour on-call in the event of an emergency and all Federal employees may be subject to emergency deployment. In the event of an emergency deployment, travel requirements may be extensive in nature (weeks to months), with little advance notice, and may require relocation to emergency sites, some of which are quite austere. The length of deployment may last anywhere from days to months, depending upon the nature of the emergency or disaster.

Every FEMA employee is considered an emergency manager and each employee has regular and recurring emergency management responsibilities, although not every position requires routine deployment to disaster sites. Your emergency management duties may vary depending on the needs of the Agency, your particular skills, and certain personal circumstances. All positions may require irregular work hours, work at locations other than the official duty station, and may include duties other than those specified in the employee's official position description.

Are you able to meet this commitment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I understand I am subject to completion of a pre-employment drug test (including marijuana). A tentative offer of employment will be rescinded if you fail to report to the drug test appointment or fail the test. You will be subject to random testing.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. In order to be hired for this position, applicants must undergo and successfully pass a Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) investigation. This may include a review of financial issues, such as delinquency, child support and/or tax obligations, as well as certain criminal offenses and illegal use of or possession of drugs.

Are you willing to undergo a background investigation?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Your responses to the questions below will be used in the evaluation of your qualifications for this position. Your resume and application materials must support the level of experience and/or education you claim in this questionnaire. If after a complete review of your application package, a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications, you may be rated in eligible for this position.
1. Select the response that best describes your experience to qualify for the grade GS-13.

 A. I possess at least one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level, as described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.
2. If you answered that you meet the minimum qualifications for this position based on your specialized experience, please indicate where and when you obtained this experience. Include in your response: (1) the area of specialized experience; (2) the place of employment; and, (3) the specific dates of employment the experience was gained in MM/DD/YYYY - MM/DD/YYYY format. Your response must be supported by your resume. Example: Experience in developing and delivering presentations and training; ABC Company; 10/01/2016 - 05/15/2018.

3. Select all responses that best describes your experience performaining Information Technology Specialist (SYSADMN) tasks.
 A. Used information security/information assurance policies, principles, and practices in the delivery of systems administration services.
 B. Troubleshoot and resolved hardware/software interface and interoperability problems.
 C. Managed accounts, network rights, and access to systems and equipment.
 D. Installed and Integrated system fixes, updates, and enhancements.
 E. None of the above.
4. Select all responses that best describes your experience with implementing new systems, upgrades, modifications, and/or security requirements and regulations.
 A. I have provided accurate information and assistance to customers regarding available PC and telecommunications products and/or services.
 B. I have consulted with customers to identify and specify requirements
 C. I have developed overall functional and systems requirements and specifications.
 D. I have defined systems scope and objectives, ensuring the integration of all systems components (i.e., procedures, databases, policies, software, and hardware)
 E. I have analyzed and developed solutions to IT integration/inoperability issues.
 F. I have analyzed, tested and evaluated IT systems, networks, and/or data.
 G. I have designed, developed and/or managed systems that meet current and future business requirements.
 H. I have ensured the thorough application of and/or applied information security/ information assurance policies, principles, and practices to the systems analysis process.
 I. I have analyzed reported problems and distinguished between hardware, software, network and user-related problems.
 J. I have provided needed guidance or training to end users to prevent problem recurrences.
 K. None of the above.
5. Select all responses that best describes your experience assuring information systems are being maintained in accordance with governing regulations.
 A. I have monitored and evaluated IT systems/applications to ensure compliance with security requirements and policies.
 B. I have evaluated, developed and implemented methods, procedures and guidance to protect information technology systems and applications.
 C. I have managed virus protection software over a network to ensure, protect and restore information systems and network services and capabilities.
 D. I have conducted risk and vulnerability assessments of planned and installed information systems to identify IT risks/vulnerability to attack from a variety of sources (e.g., espionage, disruption of services, destructive programs/ applications) and determined the level of IT protection needed.
 E. I have planned and conducted security certification and accreditation reviews for installed systems or networks and assessed and advised on new or revised security measures and countermeasures based on the results of accreditation reviews.
 F. I have assessed security events to determine impact and implemented corrective actions.
 G. I have developed systems security contingency plans and disaster recovery procedures.
 H. I have participated in network and systems design to ensure implementation of appropriate systems security policies.
 I. I have evaluated the feasibility of new systems security and services.
 J. None of the above.
6. From the list below, select all systems administration you have managed:
 A. System accounts
 B. Network rights
 C. Resources for multiple systems
 D. System installation
 E. System integration of fixes, updates, or enhancements
 F. Virus detection and prevention
 G. Reporting requirements
 H. None of the above
7. Select all responses that best describe your experience performing systems administration activities.
 A. I have administered Windows desktop(s).
 B. I have administered Windows Servers.
 C. I have administered Unix / Linux server(s) (Any Distribution).
 D. I have administered hypervisor(s).
 E. I have administered with scripting (Bash, PowerShell, Visual Basic Script, Etc.).
 F. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
8. Do you have one year of experience assisting in the physical protection of sensitive or classified information, personnel, facilities, installations, or other resources against criminal, terrorist, or hostile intelligence activities?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Select all responses that best describe the levels of information you work within a classified Document Control system.
 A. Collateral Top Secret (TS)
 B. Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI)
 C. Special Access Program (SAP)
 D. None of the above
10. Select all responses that best describes your experience communicating orally.
 A. I have experience speaking to groups in a formal setting.
 B. I have experience giving both formal and informal briefings on non-technical matters.
 C. I have experience explaining procedures, codes, and regulations to others on technical matters to management.
 D. I have presented programmatic and technical information
 E. None of the above.
11. Select all responses that best describes your experience communicating with individuals and organizations.
 A. I have minimal experience communicating with individuals and organizations.
 B. I have coordinated, drafted, and submitted reports.
 C. I have conducted briefings with senior management to provide status updates.
 D. I have communicated with other organizations to resolve concerns.
 E. I have represented my organization at meetings with other agencies.
 F. None of the above.
12. Select all responses that best describes your experience preparing written material(s).
 A. I have not prepared any written materials.
 B. I have prepared written material for briefings, meetings, and/or conferences.
 C. I have prepared written reports, memoranda, and/or correspondence for signature and submission to higher-level officials.
 D. I have written reports to explain policies or programs.
 E. I have written position papers or summary reports on organizational data.
 F. None of the above.
13. Select all responses that best describes your experience representing your organization during meetings.
 A. I have minimal experience representing an organization during meetings.
 B. I have represented my organization in individual interactions with prospective employees or customers who wanted to learn about the organization.
 C. I have represented my organization to small groups of existing or potential customers who are affected by my organization’s mission.
 D. I have represented my organization to large groups of customers or the public when presenting information about products or services.
 E. I have represented my organization to large groups of customers or the public when dealing with conflicts or problems related to my organizations’ products or services.
 F. None of the above.
14. Select all responses that best describes your experience supporting customers.
 A. I have no education, experience, or training in supporting customers.
 B. I have answered questions regarding standard procedures for customers.
 C. I have identified customer requirements.
 D. I have identified possible technical challenges with customer solutions.
 E. I have responded to difficult or uncooperative customers (or had difficult or uncooperative customers referred to me).
 F. None of the above.
15. Select all responses that best describes your experience working with others to achieve team goals.
 A. I have no education, experience, or training working with teams on IT systems and/or networks.
 B. I have reviewed specifications and/or operational capabilities of IT equipment with a team.
 C. I have directed the procurement of equipment to enhance IT systems with a team.
 D. I have planned the implementation and/or management of IT systems with a team.
 E. I have conducted evaluations of IT systems to determine future resource requirements with a team.
16. Please take this opportunity to review your question responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you understand this statement, have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected