Position Title
Supervisory Emergency Management Specialist
Agency
Federal Emergency Management Agency
Announcement Number
FEMA-LG-12764915-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 16, 2025 to Friday, July 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)

Are you a current or former FEMA Stafford Act employee eligible under the Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)?

Current and former FEMA Stafford Act employees who can document 64 or more hours of paid time, per pay period, with no breaks in service* for 78 or more consecutive pay periods since August 1, 2014, are eligible to be considered for this Merit Promotion Job Opportunity Announcement. (*Note: A "break in service" is defined as 3 or more days in non-pay status, except as allowed under 5 CFR § 315.201(b)(3)(ii) for special circumstances such as military deployment, etc.).

To verify eligibility, you must submit: 
"Notice of DRRA Eligibility" provided by OCHCO.  If you believe you're eligible, but have not received your notice, please reach out to the HR Specialist listed in the announcement.
Your FEMA SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your appointment in the excepted service under the Stafford Act.  We recommend attaching a SF-50 which indicates your highest grade and step.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Current FEMA Employee

Are you a current FEMA employee who currently holds OR has previously held a permanent (not time limited) position in the competitive service?

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your permanent competitive status.  Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions.  You may need to submit more than one SF-50.  Your SF-50 must reflect:
Block 24 - Tenure:  1 - Permanent (career) or 2 - Conditional: AND
Block 34 - Position Occupied:  1 - Competitive Service
If you previously held a career or career conditional appointment, you must provide your current SF-50 and your SF-50 which shows competitive status eligibility.
Please do not submit an award SF-50, as it might not indicate your grade level and step.  
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. FEMA Employees Only Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)
Are you a current or former FEMA employee who is considered displaced or surplus (you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction in Force)?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, your most recent performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. How did you hear about this Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) job opportunity?
 A. USAJOBS
 B. FEMA's Social Media (Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Online Job board (Indeed, Zip Recruiter, etc.)
 D. FEMA.gov Careers Website
 E. FEMA Virtual Hiring Event
 F. FEMA On-Site Hiring Event
 G. College/University/Alumni Organization
 H. FEMA Employee Referral
 I. Other
2. Are you a retiree receiving a federal annuity (either military or civilian)? Or have you accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years? (Select all that apply.)
 A. Yes, I'm receiving a military annuity.
 B. Yes, I'm receiving a civilian annuity.
 C. Yes, I've received a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
 D. No, I am not receiving a federal annuity and have not accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
3. Are you a current FEMA employee?
 A. I'm a current FEMA Local Hire Employee
 B. I'm a current FEMA Reservist Employee
 C. I'm a current FEMA CORE Employee
 D. I'm a current FEMA PFT Employee
 E. I'm a current FEMA Senior Executive Service Employee
 F. I'm not a current FEMA Employee
4. Are you currently serving, or have served within the last five years, as a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) employee in the Executive Branch?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Please provide the following information regarding your political appointment(s): 1. Official Title of Position; 2. Type of Appointment (i.e. Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career SES); 3. Name of Agency; 4. Date Position began; and 5. Date Position ended. (NOTE: If you have never held a political appointment, please enter N/A.)
6. Within the past five years, have you received a buyout or payment through the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment Authority (VSIP) when separating from a federal position?
 A. No
 B. Yes, and I understand candidates who are reemployed with the federal government within five years after receiving a buyout or payment under VSIP are required to repay the entire amount of the incentive prior to their onboarding date.
Conditions of Employment
1. If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?

Select "Not Applicable" if this question does not apply to you.
 A. Yes
 B. No, but I have an exemption
 C. I am a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, and have NOT registered with the Selective Service System and do NOT have an exemption.
 D. Not Applicable
2. All FEMA employees are subject to 24-hour on-call in the event of an emergency and all Federal employees may be subject to emergency deployment. In the event of an emergency deployment, travel requirements may be extensive in nature (weeks to months), with little advance notice, and may require relocation to emergency sites, some of which are quite austere. The length of deployment may last anywhere from days to months, depending upon the nature of the emergency or disaster.

Every FEMA employee is considered an emergency manager and each employee has regular and recurring emergency management responsibilities, although not every position requires routine deployment to disaster sites. Your emergency management duties may vary depending on the needs of the Agency, your particular skills, and certain personal circumstances. All positions may require irregular work hours, work at locations other than the official duty station, and may include duties other than those specified in the employee's official position description.

Are you able to meet this commitment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

In order to be hired for this position, applicants must undergo and successfully pass a background investigation. This may include a review of financial issues, such as delinquency, child support and/or tax obligations, as well as certain criminal offenses and illegal use of or possession of drugs.

Are you willing to undergo a background investigation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Your responses to the questions below will be used in the evaluation of your qualifications for this position. Your resume and application materials must support the level of experience and/or education you claim in this questionnaire, If, after a complete review of your application package, a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications, you may be rated in eligible for this position.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you have one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-13 level, as defined in the vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. GS positions - Please indicate where and when you obtained each of the specialized experience requirements listed in the Qualifications section of this Job Opportunity Announcement. Include in your response: (1) the area of specialized experience; (2) the place of employment; and, (3) the specific dates of employment the experience was gained in MM/DD/YYYY - MM/DD/YYYY format. Your response must be supported by your resume. If qualifying based on education alone, please enter Not Applicable.
Example: Experience in developing and delivering presentations and training; ABC Company; 10/01/2016 - 05/15/2018.
(limit 500 characters)
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. Please take this opportunity to review your question responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you understand this statement, have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Ability to use different management styles depending on the situation to effectively motivate employees, partner agencies, and other stakeholders to foster a collaborative work environment.
 A. I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency.
 B. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision form a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency.
5. Analyze and evaluate data to identify trends, characteristics and deficiencies.
 A. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker.
 E. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area.
6. Select the statement(s) that best describe your experience managing emergency management programs.
 A. Issued technical interpretations and/or decisions regarding emergency management laws, regulations, and/or policies.
 B. Developed emergency management program policies, strategies, and/or goals.
 C. Established short-range milestones for an emergency management program.
 D. Provided expert advice to a variety of senior officials.
 E. Performed reviews of emergency management initiatives involving both headquarters and field operations.
 F. None of the above.
7. From the list below, please select the response(s) that describe(s) your experience implementing or applying policies related to the Stafford Act:
 A. Administered Individual Assistance Programs at the Federal, State, Tribal, local, or non-governmental organizational level.
 B. Restored public systems and/or facilities using Public Assistance programs at the Federal, State, Tribal, local, or non-governmental organizational level.
 C. Implemented elements of the National Disaster Recovery Framework during program delivery at the Federal, State, Tribal, local, or non-governmental organization level.
 D. Delivered disaster relief by leading or consulting with non-profit and/or volunteer organizations.
 E. None of the Above.
8. From the list below, select the statement that best describes your ability to effectively communicate and represent the organization with key stakeholders including elected officials, business executives, citizen organizations and/or special interest groups.
 A. I have not had training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had training in communications, but have not yet applied it on the job.
 C. I have experience in providing information orally or in writing. Experience includes conveying or exchanging factual information, such as serving as a point of contact for other personnel on procedural matters, or providing information on routine and established matters of policy.
 D. I have experience communicating with individuals at various levels within an organization. I have demonstrated ability to present information to maximize understanding for a varied level of audiences.
 E. I have direct experience in developing and presenting complex emergency management concepts, issues and information to both technical and non-technical audiences, such as top management official from Federal, state and local government, senior leadership audiences and to the general public.
9. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) the communication activities you have performed on a regular or recurring basis at work.
 A. I have met with outside organizations, executive officials, clients, or customers to present technical information.
 B. I have represented a business line or organization at meetings as a subject matter expert.
 C. I have responded to complex requests from colleagues, managers, or clients.
 D. I have acted as primary liaison to another unit, department, or organization.
 E. I have prepared final responses to public inquiries.
 F. None of the above.
10. Have you collaborated with tribal leaders, high-ranking government officials, and congressional staff members to promote cooperation with tribal governments?
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Choose all applicable statements that relate to your experience in communicating in writing. (Select all that apply)
 A. I have prepared written presentations of factual data and information.
 B. I have prepared reports that reflect my analysis and recommendations.
 C. I have prepared written products that are widely distributed within the agency or to limited external audiences.
 D. I have written clear and effective correspondence, reports, and other written materials for a specialized audience.
 E. I have written technical and non-technical reports and presented data and information to a full range of internal and external individuals or groups with varied levels of technical expertise.
 F. I have not performed any of the above tasks.
12. Choose all examples that match your experience preparing written material. (Select all that apply)
 A. Writing information which involves technical interpretations of regulations, policies, or procedures
 B. Writing guidelines or procedural instructions for implementing new initiatives or systems
 C. Writing recommendations for resolving technical or procedural issues
 D. Writing reports that consolidate input from a number of different engineering sources
 E. None of the above
13. Do you have experience representing your Agency/organization in emergency situations that has reflected positively on the Agency/organization?
 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Choose all of the examples that apply to your experience developing effective internal and external working relationships. (Select all that apply.)
 A. Demonstrated ability to build constructive relationships with customers, peers, supervisors, managers, and subordinates.
 B. Took calculated risks to improve performance, develop innovations, or achieve challenging goals.
 C. Acted decisively and appropriately during a crisis.
 D. Took action to evaluate and improve practices and avoid future problems.
 E. None of the above.
15. Select all responses from the list below that reflect the interpersonal skills you have used to foster cooperation, convey information, or resolve conflicts. (Select all that apply)
 A. Explained findings or recommendations to upper-level managers.
 B. Planned meetings with external individuals, industry groups, and/or organizations.
 C. Informed colleagues or senior management of events that may impact ongoing work.
 D. Collaborated with internal or external representatives to achieve mutual goals.
 E. None of the above.
16. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describes the management duties you have performed on a regular basis. (select all that apply)
 A. Planned work for subordinates, set priorities, and/or provided completion deadlines.
 B. Assigned work to subordinates based on assignment difficulty and/or employee capability.
 C. Worked with employees to identify their developmental needs based on organizational goals.
 D. Communicated broad objectives to subordinate supervisors for implementation.
 E. Selected candidates for positions within my organization after interviewing them.
 F. I have counseled and/or disciplined employees on performance or conduct issues.
 G. I have recognized and/or rewarded employees for their contributions and/or achievements.
 H. I have developed performance standards and/or evaluated employees' work.
 I. I have resolved office conflicts through mediation or other forms of alternative dispute resolutions.
 J. None of the above.
17. Select the statement(s) that best reflect your experience developing employees' potential and/or maximizing their ability to succeed in their jobs.
 A. I have directed a team or unit and achieved positive, measurable results.
 B. I have provided training in continuous process improvement.
 C. I have implemented programs to meet the unit's organizational goals.
 D. I have provided career counseling and coaching.
 E. I have implemented individual development plans for my employees.
 F. I have tracked employees' progress against training and career goals.
 G. I have coached a multi-disciplinary staff.
 H. I have provided a model for creative thinking, innovative solutions, or non-traditional approaches to improve a unit's effectiveness.
 I. None of the above.
18. Do you have at least one year of experience developing and delivering recommendations to senior leadership on organizational or program improvement needs?
 A. Yes
 B. No
19. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describes the leadership roles you have held.
 A. I have led a project team.
 B. I have temporarily served as an acting supervisor while my supervisor was unavailable.
 C. I have served as the official supervisor of a work unit or department.
 D. I have served as the official supervisor of multiple work units or departments.
 E. None of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected