Position Title
Registered Respiratory Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12778745-25-EKS Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, August 12, 2025 to Tuesday, August 19, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical?
 A. Yes
 B. No
If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Registered Respiratory Therapist (RRT) position with the Department of Veterans Affairs - Veterans Health Administration. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification. Your resume will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application. The Full Performance Level of this position is GS-11. The actual grade at which an applicant may be selected for this vacancy is in the range of GS-5 to GS-11.
BASIC REQUIREMENTS
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. English Language Proficiency. RRTs appointed to direct patient-care positions must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. ? 7403(f).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English language?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Education. Individuals must have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care (CoARC) or its successor.

Note: A transcript from accredited colleges, universities, schools, or institutions must be submitted with your application. If your school program was accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care (CoARC) or its successor at the time of graduation, but is no longer listed on the websites, or has changed names, you must provide documentation of accreditation with your application packet. Failure to do so will result in an ineligible rating.

I have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care (CoARC) or its successor.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Licensure. Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT.

Please provide the following information regarding your license:
License type (CRT/RRT):
State issued:
Date of License issued:
Date of expiration:

Note: License must be current/unexpired. You must submit a copy of your licensure with your application.

Please select the statement below that best describes your license from a state to meet the qualification requirement.

 A. I possess a full, current and unrestricted license from an state to practice as a Certified Respiratory Therapists (CRT).
 B. I possess a full, current and unrestricted license from an state to practice as a Registered Respiratory Therapists (RRT).
 C. I'm currently employed in VHA as a Registered Respiratory Therapists (RRT) and have been determined to be covered by the Grandfathering Provision and may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance level or demoted within the occupation.
 D. I DO NOT possess a license as described in the statements above.
4. Credential. Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a valid, current, unrestricted credential of RRT.

Please provide the following information regarding your credential.
Type of credential earned (CRT/RRT):
Registration Number:
Award date:
Expiration date:

Note: You must submit a copy of your credential with your application.

Select the statement below that best describes your credential from the National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC) to meet the qualification requirement.

 A. I possess a valid, current, unrestricted credential from the National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC) as a Certified Respiratory Therapists (CRT).
 B. I possess a valid, current, unrestricted credential from the National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC) as a Registered Respiratory Therapists (RRT).
 C. I DO NOT possess the credential(s) as described above.
GRADE LEVEL REQUIREMENTS - Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. Respiratory Therapist (RT) - GS-5

Experience. None beyond the basic requirement

Credential. CRT. Upon graduation from an accredited program, Respiratory Therapists (RT) are eligible to take a national examination and upon passing, the individual is granted the credential of Certified Respiratory Therapist (CRT) by the NBRC. RTs who hold a CRT credential are limited in duties and responsibilities and differ from those who hold an RRT credential.

Education and Licensure. This level assignment is designated for individuals who have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by theCoARC or its successor, acquired the CRT credential, licensed by their state and are working towards obtaining RRT credential.

Do you possess a CRT (or RRT) credential?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Registered Respiratory Therapist (RRT) - GS-7

Credential. Candidates must possess their RRT credential.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs). In addition to the basic requirements above, candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
 
Ability to perform therapeutic modalities related to respiratory care.
Skill in analyzing physiological specimens obtained to include arterial blood gases, pulse oximetry, End tidal Co2 (ETCo2) monitoring, basic spirometry and other basic diagnostic procedures.
Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals for respiratory care to help provide favorable patient outcomes.
Skill in assessing oxygenation and ventilation.
Ability to perform basic airway management to include artificial airways and mechanical ventilation.

I am able to demonstrate all of the following KSAs above.

Note: Please ensure your resume fully supports the KSAs required at this level. No assumptions will be made regarding your experience.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Registered Respiratory Therapist (RRT) - GS-9

Experience or Education, Licensure and Credential. Candidates must have one of the following:
One year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level (see GS-7 KSAs above); OR,
A Master of Science degree in respiratory care AND a license AND an RRT credential.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs). In addition to the requirements above, candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
 
Skill in performing therapeutic modalities related to respiratory care.
 Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals to help provide favorable patient outcomes.
Skill in assessing oxygenation and ventilation.
Ability to perform airway management to include artificial airways and mechanical ventilation.

Note: Please ensure your resume fully supports the KSAs required at this level. No assumptions will be made regarding your experience.
 A. I have one (1) year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at the GS-7 level.
 B. I have a Master of Science degree in respiratory care AND a license AND an RRT credential.
 C. I DO NOT possess the above experience or degree with license and RRT credential as described in the above statements.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
8. Registered Respiratory Therapist (RRT) - GS-11

Experience Licensure and Credential. Candidates must have the following: 
One year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level (see GS-9 KSAs above).
Hold an active license and RRT credential

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the requirements above, candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
 
Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals for complex respiratory care to develop care plans to provide favorable patient outcomes.
Skill in evaluating the efficacies of therapeutic modalities.
Skill in performing advanced airway and ventilation management.

I am able to demonstrate all of the following KSAs above.

Note: Please ensure your resume fully supports the KSAs required at this level. No assumptions will be made regarding your experience.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected