Position Title
MUSEUM CURATOR (TITLE 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-12796737-AR-25-134A Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 9, 2025 to Tuesday, September 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1. I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Requirements
1. Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?
 A. Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at (60th TC) (See last SF50).
 B. Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at a NC ARNG unit/activity, other than (60th TC) (See last SF50).
 C. Area 3 - Within the NC Army National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 D. Area 4 - I am currently assigned to one of the following: Active Duty Army, Army Reserve, or a State/Territory Army National Guard other than North Carolina.
 E. I am not currently assigned to one of the areas listed above.
2. Are you currently assigned militarily as an Officer (CPT to MAJ)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.
1. Select the one statement that best describes the Minimum Requirements that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-12 Museum Curator.
 A. I HAVE a degree in Museum Studies or a related field that included at least 18 semester hours in museum education, curation, or collections management.
 B. I HAVE completed courses equivalent to a major in Museum Studies (or a major in a related field) that included at least 18 semester hours in museum education, curation, or collections management, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 C. I DO NOT HAVE the experience, education, or training listed above.
2. Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-12 Museum Curator.
 A. I HAVE at least one-year specialized experience, education or training at the GS-11 level or the equivalent that possess experience in 1) planning, administering, and managing state National Guard (NG) museum, exhibits, or historical collection in accordance with Army Center for Military History (CMH), Army Museum Enterprise (AME), and state policy; 2) leading development of museums exhibits to include developing original plans/exhibit scripts and/or collaborating with exhibit designers on final designs for exhibits, including research necessary for preparation of exhibits and determining gallery space direct teaching and lectures to promote awareness of state NG history; 3) planning the state, territory, or district-level educational and interpretive programs which are presented to interpret objects - example would be an analysis of the evolution of how the NG is committed during crises; 4) participating in public programming, including informative tours of the state's NG museum or exhibits for members of the public and distinguished visitors to the state JFHQ, RTI or other high traffic area; and 5) facilitating volunteer participation within the museum in accordance with applicable policy and guidelines and manages the administration of volunteer programs within the museum.
 B. I DO NOT HAVE at least one-year specialized experience, education or training at the GS-11 level or the equivalent listed above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected