Position Title
Maintenance Helper
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
KW25-12803613 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 29, 2025 to Monday, October 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Condition of Employment
1.
I am willing and able to acquire professional job-related certifications with the time frame specified in the announcement.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you live within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position?

This information will be based on the address listed on your resume and USA Jobs. The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live or work and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 Yes
 No


3.
If you do not currently reside within the local commuting area, are you eligible for military spouse preference AND submitted all required documents as listed in the announcement? (You must still claim the eligibility when applying).
 Yes
 No


4.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for this position. Failure to respond may result in an ineligible rating.


1.
How many years of experience do you have using a variety of basic hand/power tools and small construction tools?
 Two or more years of documented skill in the use of a variety of basic hand/power tools and small construction tools.
 One to two years of documented skill in the use of a variety of basic hand/power tools and small construction tools.
 Six months to one year of documented skill in the use of a variety of basic hand/power tools and small construction tools.
 No documented skill in the use of hand-powered tools and small construction tools.


2.
How many years of combined experience do you possess working in the following trades (experience can be combined): PLUMBING, CARPENTRY, PAINTING, MINOR ELECTRICAL.
 Three plus years documented general experience in a trade listed above
 Two to Three years documented general experience in a trade listed above
 One to Two years documented general experience in a trade listed above
 Less than one year documented general experience in a trade listed above
 No documented general experience in a trade listed above


3.
How many years of experience do you have in groundskeeping?
 Three plus years documented groundskeeping experience
 Two to three years documented groundskeeping experience
 One to two years documented groundskeeping experience
 Less than one-year documented groundskeeping experience
 No documented groundskeeping experience


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙