Position Title
Information Technology Specialist (NETWORK)
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OIT-IMP-12776286-DBM Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 6, 2025 to Tuesday, August 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
3. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
4. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
5. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
6. This vacancy has a local commuting area requirement, as defined below:
The area surrounding the duty station by which people reasonably travel back and forth from home to work; Or
The employee's permanent duty station is located within the reasonable travel area surrounding the duty station of this vacancy; Or if applicable
For employees who are detailed or temporarily promoted (for less than 1 year) to another duty location, the permanent duty location is considered to be the duty location of record for commuting area purposes.
For employees who are detailed or temporarily promoted (for more than 1 year) to another duty location, the detailed or temporary duty location is considered to be the duty location of record for commuting area purposes.
Do you meet the local commuting area requirement?
 A. A. Yes, I meet the local commuting area requirement as defined above.
 B. B. No, I do not meet the local commuting area requirement as defined above.
7. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-12 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that included: Resolving a variety of information technology problems, questions, or situations that involve the design, testing, implementation, operation, and support of IT systems. Evaluating unusual circumstances, considering different approaches and dealing with incomplete and conflicting data. Using judgment and originality by interpreting data, planning the work and refining the methods and techniques being used.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
8. In addition to the application and application questionnaire, this position requires a USA Hire online assessment, which measures critical general competencies required to perform the job. If you are required to take the USA Hire assessment, you will be emailed a unique URL to access the USA Hire system. The USA Hire online assessment must be completed within 48 hours, following the close of this announcement. You will have the opportunity to request a testing accommodation for the assessment should you have a disability covered under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). See the How to Apply and Next Steps within the Job Opportunity Announcement for additional details.

Do you acknowledge that you may be required to take an additional online USA Hire assessment, via an email link sent to you after completion of this application, and that failure to complete any portion of the assessment will remove your application from consideration?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that by not taking the additional required USA Hire assessment that I will be removed from further consideration.
9. I have experience with attention to detail when performing work and been conscientious about attending to detail.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Not applicable, I'm qualifying for this position based on education. This applies to positions at the GS-11 and below.
10. I have experience with customer service as it pertains to working with clients and customers to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfying their expectations.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Not applicable, I'm qualifying for this position based on education. This applies to positions at the GS-11 and below.
11. I have experience with communicating effectively orally. This includes making clear and convincing argument to individuals or groups including taking into account the audience and the nature of the information. Along with listening to others while observing visual cues and responding appropriately.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Not applicable, I'm qualifying for this position based on education. This applies to positions at the GS-11 and below.
12. I have experience problem solving which includes determining the accuracy and relevance of information. Along with using sound judgement to generate and evaluate alternatives and makes recommendation based on those findings.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Not applicable, I'm qualifying for this position based on education. This applies to positions at the GS-11 and below.
Assessment 1
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
1. Indicate the extent of your experience ensuring that information security/information assurance policies, principles, and practices are applied in the delivery of customer support services.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have followed the guidance of others in applying information security/information assurance policies, principles, and practices in the delivery of customer support services.
 C. I have independently ensured that information security/information assurance policies, principles, and ractices are applied in the delivery of customer support services.
 D. I have been responsible for ensuring that information security/information assurance policies, principles, and practices are applied in the delivery of customer support services by a team or group.
2. Indicate the extent of your experience diagnosing or resolving problems in response to customer-reported incidents.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have diagnosed problems in response to customer-reported incidents, but have not resolved problems as part of my normal duties.
 C. I diagnose and resolve problems by working with a team, in response to customer-reported incidents, as part of my normal duties.
 D. I have independently diagnosed and resolved problems in response to customer-reported incidents as part of my normal duties.
3. Indicate the extent of your experience installing and maintaining customer hardware or software.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in installing and maintaining customer hardware or software.
 C. I have independently installed and maintained customer hardware or software as part of my normal duties.
 D. I have trained others on how to install and maintain customer hardware or software.
4. Indicate the extent of your experience addressing and resolving reported cyber-security threats/alerts.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have addressed and resolved reported cyber-security threats/alerts for individual accounts.
 C. I have addressed and resolved reported cyber-security threats/alerts for the organization's network.
5. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of computer network architecture, equipment, tools, principles, and concepts.

 A. I have no knowledge of computer network architecture, equipment, tools, principles, and concepts.
 B. I have basic knowledge of computer network architecture, equipment, tools, principles, and concepts, but have not applied this knowledge in a work setting.
 C. I have a working knowledge of computer network architecture, equipment, tools, principles, and concepts, and have applied this knowledge in a work setting on a regular basis.
 D. I have extensive knowledge of computer network architecture, equipment, tools, principles, and concepts. I am frequently consulted on complex network issues due to my expertise.
6. Indicate the extent of your experience troubleshooting and resolving IT issues.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I am able to troubleshoot and resolve simple IT issues using guidebooks or the internet, but do not perform this task as part of my normal duties.
 C. I have troubleshot and resolved Tier I or Level 1 IT issues (e.g., username/password problems, uninstalling/reinstalling software, navigating application menus, etc.).
 D. I have troubleshot and resolved Tier II or Level 2 IT issues (e.g., installation or replacement of hardware, diagnostic testing, software repair, etc.).
 E. I have troubleshot Tier III or Level 3 IT issues (e.g., server problems, operating system issues, etc.).
7. Indicate the extent of your experience configuring, integrating, troubleshooting, or optimizing customer hardware and software.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have configured, integrated, troubleshot, and optimized hardware or software, but not both.
 C. I have configured, integrated, troubleshot, and optimized hardware and software as part of my normal duties.
 D. I have trained others to configure, integrate, troubleshoot, and optimize hardware and software.
8. Indicate the extent of your experience ensuring efficient and effective sharing/transmission of information (i.e., giving briefings, writing reports, informing the organization on changes/issues with the network).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have ensured efficient and effective sharing/transmission of information (i.e., giving briefings, writing reports, informing the organization on changes/issues with the network) to my colleagues.
 C. I have ensured efficient and effective sharing/transmission of information (i.e., giving briefings, writing reports, informing the organization on changes/issues with the network) to my colleagues and direct supervisor(s).
 D. I have served as a team lead and ensured efficient and effective sharing/transmission of information (i.e., giving briefings, writing reports, informing the organization on changes/issues with the network) to my supervisor(s) and senior leaders.
 E. I have ensured efficient and effective sharing/transmission of information (i.e., giving briefings, writing reports, informing the organization on changes/issues with the network) to internal and external stakeholders.
9. Indicate the extent of your experience supporting or managing accounts, network permissions, or access to systems and equipment to ensure security compliance.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in supporting or managing accounts, network permissions, or access to systems and equipment to ensure security compliance.
 C. I have supported or managed accounts, network permissions, or access to systems and equipment to ensure security compliance.
 D. I have audited network accounts, permissions, or access to systems and equipment to ensure security compliance.
10. Indicate the extent of your experience implementing customer support procedures and standards to ensure consistent reporting.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have implemented my organization's established customer support procedures and standards to ensure consistent reporting within my work group.
 C. I have worked with a team to improve and implement customer support procedures and standards to ensure consistent reporting across my organization.
 D. I have submitted ideas to my senior leaders to improve customer support procedures and standards to ensure consistent reporting, and these ideas have been implemented across my organization.
11. Indicate the extent of your experience providing customer training to enhance user knowledge.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted customers one-on-one to enhance user knowledge.
 C. I have provided informal customer training classes to small groups of people (less than 10) to enhance user knowledge.
 D. I have provided formal and informal customer training classes to large groups of people (more than 10) to enhance user knowledge.
 E. I have trained others on how to provide customer training to enhance user knowledge.
12. Indicate the extent of your experience ensuring the integration and availability of all system components (e.g., procedures, databases, policies, software, and hardware).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have worked with a team to ensure the integration and availability of all system components (e.g., procedures, databases, policies, software, and hardware).
 C. I have ensured the integration and availability of all system components (e.g., procedures, databases, policies, software, and hardware), as part of my normal duties.
 D. I have served as a team lead to ensure the integration and availability of all system components (e.g., procedures, databases, policies, software, and hardware).
13. Indicate the extent of your experience resolving hardware/software interface and interoperability problems.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others to resolve routine hardware/software interface and interoperability problems.
 C. I have resolved non-routine hardware/software interface and interoperability problems as part of my normal duties.
 D. I have served as a team lead ensuring complex hardware/software interface and interoperability problems were resolved.
14. Indicate the extent of your experience ensuring that software and systems quality and functionality meet customer requirements.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in ensuring that software and systems quality and functionality meet customer requirements.
 C. I have ensured that software and systems quality and functionality met customer requirements as part of my normal duties.
 D. I have served as a team lead and had the primary responsibility for ensuring that software and systems quality and functionality met customer requirements.
15. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of performance tuning tools and techniques to diagnose and recover failed systems.
 A. I have no knowledge of performance tuning tools and techniques to diagnose and recover failed systems.
 B. I have basic knowledge of performance tuning tools and techniques to diagnose and recover failed systems and have applied this knowledge under the close supervision of others.
 C. I have technical knowledge of performance tuning tools and techniques to diagnose and recover failed systems and have applied this knowledge as part of my normal duties.
 D. I have expert knowledge of performance tuning tools and techniques to diagnose and recover failed systems. I have trained others on the use of these tools and techniques.
16. Indicate the extent of your experience monitoring and updating incident management tracking logs/software.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have updated incident management tracking logs with information provided to me by other IT Specialists.
 C. I have monitored and updated incident management tracking logs/software, to include the metrics used and the problem resolution for my own work.
 D. I have monitored and updated incident management tracking logs/software, to include the metrics used, and the problem resolution for my team. I have assigned work to individuals as needed.
17. Indicate the extent of your experience supporting or managing the installation and integration of system patches, repairs, updates, and enhancements.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have supported others in the installation and integration of system patches, repairs, updates, and enhancements.
 C. I have supported and managed the installation and integration of system patches, repairs, updates, and enhancements as part of my normal duties.
 D. I have audited and resolved issues with the installation and integration of system patches, repairs, updates, and enhancements.
18. Indicate the extent of your experience evaluating and providing feedback on problematic trends and patterns in customer support requirements to improve customer operational capability.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have provided feedback to a supervisor or more senior individual on problematic trends and patterns in customer support requirements.
 C. I have evaluated and provided feedback directly to internal and external stakeholders on problematic trends and patterns in customer support requirements to improve customer operational capability.
 D. I have identified problematic trends and patterns in customer support requirements and implemented solutions to improve customer operational capability.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected