Position Title
Program Analyst (IQCS)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
NPSFAM-25-12796935-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 10, 2025 to Wednesday, September 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.  
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you meet one of the following Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibilities:
Current Federal or former employees with career or career- conditional appointments in the competitive service that hold, or have held a career or career-conditional position at a lower grade level as the position being announced; or,
Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) eligibles
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation.  For example, a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your competitive status or a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Do you meet one of the following Non-Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibilities:
Disabled veteran receiving 30% or more disability compensation from the VA;
Transfer, reassignment or reinstatement eligible:  current Federal or former employee with career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service that hold, or have previously held a career or career-conditional position at the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being announced; or,
Individual eligible under other non-competitive appointment authorities such as: Veterans Recruitment Authority; Military spouses under E.O. 13473; Certain former overseas employees; Present and former Peace Corps, Vista or Action volunteers; Former White House staff; Present and former Foreign Service officers and employees; Certain National Guard technicians; Schedule A; OPM Interchange Agreement and Other Miscellaneous Authorities.
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation.  For example, a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service; a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50); etc.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 5 location(s).
 A. Fairbanks, AK
 B. Tucson, AZ
 C. El Portal, CA
 D. Oakhurst, CA
 E. Ventura, CA
 F. Fort Collins, CO
 G. Lakewood, CO
 H. Washington, DC
 I. Atlanta, GA
 J. Boise, ID
 K. Porter, IN
 L. Hancock, ME
 M. Missoula, MT
 N. Omaha, NE
 O. Boulder City, NV
 P. Bend, OR
 Q. Bushkill, PA
 R. Gatlinburg, TN
 S. Fritch, TX
 T. Saint George, UT
 U. Luray, VA
 V. Forks, WA
 W. Olympia, WA
 X. Vancouver, WA
 Y. Moose, WY
A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
2. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
6. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. My performance is at an acceptable level and I am not serving under a formal Performance Improvement Plan (PIP).
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Not Applicable
8. Credit will be given for all appropriate qualifying experience. To receive credit for experience, your resume MUST clearly indicate the nature of the duties and responsibilities for each position, starting and ending dates of employment (MUST include beginning and ending month/year e.g., 5/2019-10/2019 or 5/10/2019-10/20/2019), and the resume must reflect full and/or part-time or total number of hours worked (i.e., work 40+ hours a week, rather than indicating full-time). If part-time, the exact hours must be annotated to be able to pro-rate the amount of qualified specialized experience.
 A. Yes, I certify that I have read and understood this requirement. I understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my resume/application.
 B. No, I have not provided this information in my resume/application. I understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my resume/application.
9. Merit Promotion applicants who are in a current GS position or have held a GS position any time in the previous 52 weeks (one year) must also meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of this announcement. For a GS-11 position you must have served 52 weeks (one year) at the GS-09. The grade may have been in any occupation but must have been held in the Federal service. SF-50(s) that shows your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application (e.g. Promotions, STEP Increases, etc.). Award SF-50s will not be accepted for determination of time-in-grade. Note: Time-In-Grade requirements also apply to former Federal civilian employees applying for reinstatement as well as current employees applying for Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA) appointment.
 A. I meet the Time-in-Grade requirements as defined above and have provided the appropriate documentation with my applicant package.
 B. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirements as defined above and/or unable to provided the appropriate documentation with my applicant package.
Assessment 1
Your responses will be used to determine minimum eligibility and qualification requirements. Be sure that your experience as listed in your application materials supports your responses to the questions below.  Each of your responses must be clearly supported by your education, training, and/or specific work experience that you describe in your application packet submitted for this position (application form or resume, transcripts, list and description of training completed and/or other items you submit). If not, your score will be lowered or you will be found not qualified. The information you provide will be verified. Any exaggeration of your experience, false statements, or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for rating you ineligible, not hiring you, or for firing you after you begin work.
1. From the descriptions below, select the one statement that most accurately describes the experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this Management Assistant GS-0343-11 position. Read all responses before making your selection.
 A. I have at least one full year of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors). Experience at this level must include at least one of the following: Work directly related to entry, upkeep and management of incident response qualifications, certifications and training data using the Incident Qualifications and Certifications System (IQCS); Incident Resource Ordering Capability (IROC),system, assisting in oversight of incident management programs and activities, through tracking of all incident response related data, financial and time related data for fire and emergency services personnel.
 B. I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M in a related field. Note: You must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
 C. I have an equivalent combination of the specialized experience described in "A" and the education described in "B." The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify). Note: You must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
 D. I do not have the level of experience and/or education described in the statements above.
2. As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting your or for dismissing you from the position/agency during the probation period. Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning; 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy; and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected