Position Title
Supervisory Immigration Services Officer (Field Office Director)
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12804588-PHO-IMP-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 29, 2025 to Wednesday, October 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current USCIS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 Yes
 No


2.
The Reemployment Priority List (RPL) is the mechanism DHS uses to give reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees separated by reduction-in-force (RIF), or fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a former USCIS employee?  If so, have you met all of the following criteria?
Registered for the RPL program, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupied a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current/most recent performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent, and
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606
For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, visit 5 CFR 330 Subpart B.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
My SF-50 showing Separation - RIF. If that is not available yet, then official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who is in a permanent position that is in the competitive service (see block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type)?

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of our SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who has held, or currently holds, a permanent position in the competitive service (see block #34 of your SF-50) with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?  

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
 Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
I acknowledge the following conditions if I choose to submit my resume through the USAJOBS Resume Builder:
I understand that resumes submitted through USAJOBS Resume Builder are converted to a PDF format when they are transmitted to USA Staffing from the USAJOBS applicant interface and additional spaces/page gaps are added to resumes during the Resume Builder conversion process;
Based on the above conditions, I understand that USCIS strongly encourages me to save my resume to a PDF document and upload the PDF document instead of submitting my resume created through Resume Builder;
I understand that USCIS' human resources will only review the first 2 pages of my resume to determine eligibility/qualifications for this position;
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I have met this requirement for consideration.

(Note: Additional guidance regarding this requirement is available within the How to Submit Your Resume section of the USCIS Resume Requirement FAQs.)
 Yes
 No


2.
There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 Yes
 No
 The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.


3.
Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) from the Federal Government within the last 5 years?
 Yes
 No


4.
I acknowledge that this position is NOT remote and that if selected, I will be expected to report to the duty station listed within the announcement text.
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I understand this requirement.
By answering NO to this question, I am asking to be removed from further consideration for this position.
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
GS-15 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the requirement as described above.


2.
You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.



3.
This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-15. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-14 grade level or equivalent?
 Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-14 grade level or equivalent.
 No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-14 grade level or equivalent.
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-15 grade level or equivalent.
 Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.


The following section contains a multitude of question types. If you see a radio button, you can only select one response. If you see a checkbox, you may select all that apply.
 


4.
Which actions have you completed to implement strategic initiatives (e.g. enterprise-wide hiring reform, improving operating processes, developmental programs)?
 A. Participated in the implementation of a strategic initiative with organization-wide implications.
 B. Led a working group focused on implementation of an organization-wide strategic initiative.
 C. Developed a course of action (e.g., road map, project plan) for a strategic initiative.
 D. Identified risks or barriers to successful achievement for a strategic initiative.
 E. Reported on the progress of a strategic achievement to leadership (e.g., formal briefings, progress reports).
 F. Revised a course of action to meet a strategic goal.
 G. None of the above.


5.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience interacting with law enforcement entities?
 I analyzed law enforcement information received indirectly and incorporated it into decision-making.
 I have been a point of contact for law enforcement entities.
 I cultivated relationships with law enforcement entities to promote inter-agency collaboration.
 I have no experience, training, or education related to interacting with law enforcement entities.
 I completed education and/or training related to interacting with law enforcement entities, but do not have professional experience.


6.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience communicating up-to-date local, national, and/or international policies and trends that affect an organization?
 I have no experience, training, or education related to communicating policies and trends.
 I completed education and/or training related to communicating policies and trends but do not have professional experience.
 I provided training and senior-level briefings about upcoming developments in policy and trends.
 I supervised a team of analysts/researchers who monitored and reported trends and potential short-comings impacting the organization.
 I created analytical data reports for the leaders of my section/department on recurring trends affecting the organization.


7.
Select the Human Resources functions you have performed to provide administrative support to customers (e.g., managers, administrative officers, selecting officials, applicants, employees, union officials).
 A. Recruitment and staffing (e.g., position classification, position management)
 B. Full Time Equivalent (FTE)/Individual Position Number (IPN) Utilization
 C. Personnel actions processing
 D. Adverse Actions
 E. Training on human resources topics
 F. None of the above


8.
Which financial activities have you performed?
 A. I processed financial transactions for supplies and equipment.
 B. I authorized or declined payment on contractor payment requests.
 C. I created cost-benefit analyses for review from Program/Project Manager(s).
 D. I conducted market research to present Program/Project Manager(s) with best valued prices.
 E. I processed Receiving and Acceptance tickets.
 F. I tracked Government Furnished Property when assigned to employees.
 G. I recommend invoice approval to Contracting Officer.
 H. I evaluated vendor proposals.
 I. I monitored the cost of each contract through automated financial systems.
 J. I worked with the customer and Program/Project Manager(s) to resolve invoice discrepancies.
 K. None of the Above


9.
Which personnel-related items/documents have you completed?
 A. Personnel Budget Projections
 B. Budget Requests for New Personnel
 C. Position Description
 D. Job Analysis
 E. Disciplinary Action
 F. Recruitment Actions
 G. None of the above


10.
Which response best describes your highest level of experience making legal decisions based on a preponderance of evidence received during data collection for applicants seeking immigration benefits?
 I provided data to others who were responsible for making legal decisions.
 I independently researched, interpreted and analyzed sources in order to make legal decisions.
 I independently reviewed and approved legal decisions made by others to ensure agency-/ organizational-wide pertinent sections of the law and regulations were supported.
 None of the above.


11.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience adjudicating immigration benefits applications?
 I have no experience, training, or education related to adjudicating immigration benefits applications.
 I completed education and/or training related to adjudicating immigration benefits applications, but do not have professional experience.
 I applied immigration laws, rules, and regulations while under supervision.
 I independently applied immigration laws, rules, and regulations to recommend adjudication results.
 I independently adjudicated immigration benefits and wrote final determinations to support my findings.


12.
What is your highest level of experience determining when a decision can be made with all available evidence and when it is necessary to refer the case to another branch?
 I analyzed files and provided explanations of case status when prompted.
 I provided information to third parties and evaluated all avenues to determine and/or correct issues.
 I prepared case files/records and related documents to be routed to other offices.
 I independently researched questions and provided in-depth guidance when referring incomplete cases.
 I have no experience, training, or education related to making this type of determination.
 I completed education and/or training related to making this kind of determination, but do not have professional experience.


13.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience conducting a file review for decisions made on immigration benefit applications to ensure the final decision is in compliance with immigration laws, regulations and/or policies?
 I have no experience, training, or education related to reviewing immigration benefit decisions.
 I completed education and/or training on reviewing immigration benefit decisions, but do not have professional experience.
 I independently reviewed immigration benefit applications to ensure the adjudication decision complied with immigration laws, regulations and/or policies.
 I assisted applicants in appealing the final decision for immigration benefits sought based on the grounds of the decision not being compliant with immigration laws, regulations and/or policies.
 I counseled my superiors on cases where the final decision for immigration benefits was not in compliance with immigration laws, regulations and/or policies and recommended solutions to rectify the error.


14.
Select the tasks you have performed to advise senior leadership on statutory and regulatory changes that impact immigration policies.
 A. I have coordinated briefings, presentations, and assessments to senior leadership on statutory and regulatory changes that impact immigration policies or related procedures
 B. I have presented briefings on statutory and regulatory changes that impact immigration policies to senior leadership with my supervisor’s instructions and guidance.
 C. I have independently drafted and presented briefing materials for senior leadership on the impact of statutory and regulatory changes on immigration policies or related procedures.
 D. None of the above


15.
Indicate your level of experience briefing Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 I have applied numerous techniques to provide briefing to Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 I have performed nuanced research to develop imaginative ways to proffer information to Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 I have cultivated custom presentation techniques in the analysis of information and the briefing Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 I have spearheaded mission specific teams in identifying definitive information to be presented to Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 I do not meet any of the options provided.


16.
Which activities have you completed related to supervisory and leadership training?
 A. I personalized lesson plans (i.e. check for learning, questioning techniques, overview, review, personal experience).
 B. I modified lesson content to adapt to new guidance, processes, and policies.
 C. I prepared instructor training.
 D. I prepared instructor observations.
 E. I presented instructor training.
 F. I presented instructor observations.
 G. None of the above.


17.
If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "pass," "satisfactory," or better?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. I am a Federal employee but have not received a performance rating.
 D. Not applicable. I am not a Federal employee.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


18.
Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙