Position Title
Personnel Security Specialist
Agency
Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers
Announcement Number
FLETC-DD-25-12769411 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 24, 2025 to Wednesday, July 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you currently employed as a Federal civilian employee with the Department of Homeland Security who has held or currently holds, a permanent competitive service position in the federal government with equal or higher promotion potential as this position?

To verify your eligibility as a current DHS employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status.

Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1), or, your status is in the excepted service (Position Occupied field is 2) and you are eligible under a valid interchange agreement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a currently employed as a Federal civilian employee with the Department of Homeland Security in the Competitive Service?

To verify your eligibility as a current DHS employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status.

Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1) or, your status is in the excepted service (Position Occupied field is 2) and you are eligible under a valid interchange agreement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
9
11
12
FLETC Data
1. I am willing and able to undergo pre-appointment drug testing for illegal drug use.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2.

Are you applying for a promotion? It is a promotion if you are applying for a general schedule (GS) position that is higher than the grade level you currently hold or previously held in the past. To be considered for a promotion, you must provide SF-50(s) that shows that you have held the next lower GS grade for at least one year. SF-50s that have an effective date within the past year (e.g., General Adjustment SF-50 from this year or Within Rate/Grade Increases (WRI/WGI) SF-50 within a year) do not clearly show that you meet the one-year time-in-grade requirement. That means if you submit an SF-50 that is dated within the last year, you must submit another SF-50 that is dated more than one year ago to clearly demonstrate you meet the time-in-grade requirements.

 A. Yes, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a promotion. I have submitted one or two SF-50(s) that show I have held the next lower GS grade or equivalent (non-GS pay system) for at least one year.
 B. No, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a GS grade that I currently hold or have held in the past. I have submitted an SF-50 to support this claim.
 C. Yes, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a promotion but I have not held the next lower grade or equivalent (non-GS pay system) for at least one year. I was recently promoted to my current grade level within the last year so I do not meet the time-in-grade requirements for promotion.
 D. No, I am not a GS employee and I have not been a GS employee within the last year (e.g. I am in a pay band, or I am an FWS employee, or I have never worked for the federal government) so this is not applicable to me.
3. How did you learn about this Department of Homeland Security (DHS) job opportunity announcement?
--Select-- 
--Select--
Career Fair
Met a FLETC representative at a recruitment event
Magazine
Newspaper
Radio
TV
Poster
Private Employment Office
State Employment Office (Unemployment Office)
Agency Human Resources Development (bulletin board or other announcement)
Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college
Federal, state, or local Job Information Center
Religious organization
College, university, or career placement counselor
Friend or relative working for this agency
Friend or relative not working for this agency
USAJOBS
Professional Association
Publication
Conference
College Event
Private information service
LinkedIn
Other
4. Select the rating level you received, as applicable to your agency's performance management system, for your last performance appraisal. Please provide a copy of your last performance appraisal.
 A. Outstanding | Achieved Excellence
 B. Exceeds Fully Successful/Highly Successful | Exceeded Expectations
 C. Fully Successful/Pass | Achieved Expectations
 D. Minimally Satisfactory/Minimally Acceptable
 E. Unacceptable/Fail
 F. None of the above
5. Select the types of awards you have received within the last three years.
 A. Quality Step Increase
 B. Special Act or Time Off Award
 C. Performance Award
 D. Honorary Award
 E. Letter of Commendation
 F. None of the above
6. List any education and/or training related to this position (do not provide copies of certificates).
7. I have thoroughly reviewed the 'How to Apply/Required Documents' & 'Qualifications' sections of this Vacancy Announcement to determine which supplemental documents to submit. This may include: Transcripts to verify undergraduate/graduate education; A Current/Non-Award SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, noting current position title, series, grade, position occupied, tenure, highest salary (including basic pay) and duty location if I am a current/former Federal employee; DD-214 if I am a veteran (and SF-15/VA Letter if applicable), etc. I understand that failure to fax or upload required documents by the vacancy announcement's closing date may result in loss of consideration. Answer to this question is required.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Did you accept a lump sum payment from the government through a workforce transition program such as the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP), Voluntary Early Retirement Authority (VERA), and/ or Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) before September 30th, 2025?
 A. Yes, I accepted a lump sum pay out from a workforce transition program.
 B. Yes, I accepted the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) only.
 C. No, I did not participate in either program.
Assessment 1
This vacancy is only open to current DHS employees serving under a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service. You must submit an SF-50 that shows you currently work for DHS
1. Select the statement that best describes your experience or education at it relates to the Personnel Security Specialist, GS-0080-09 position. Please ensure your response is supported by information in your resume.
 A. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the federal service and my background includes experience making recommendations for pre-appointment determinations utilizing personnel security suitability/fitness factors, security guidelines, and additional considerations or reviewing reports of investigations and other data to make preliminary determinations.
 B. I have successfully completed a Masters or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or L.L.B or J.D., from an accredited college or university. The education is related to the work of the position to be filled. I will provide a copy of my college transcripts.
 C. I possess an equivalent combination of specialized experience and graduate education. I understand that only graduate education in excess of the first 18 semester hours may be combined with the specialized experience. I will provide a copy of my college transcripts
 D. My background does not match any of the statements above.
2. Select the statement that best describes your experience or education at it relates to the Personnel Security Specialist, GS-0080-11 position. Please ensure your response is supported by information in your resume.
 A. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the federal service and my background includes experience evaluating the performance measurements of programs and collecting data for reporting purposes.
 B. I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., from an accredited college or university. The education is related to the work of the position to be filled. I will provide a copy of my college transcripts.
 C. I possess an equivalent combination of specialized experience and graduate education. I understand that only graduate education in excess of the first 36 semester hours may be combined with the specialized experience. I will provide a copy of my college transcripts.
 D. My background does not match any of the statements above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level or pay band in the Federal service performing investigations and reinvestigations for contractors and employees; suitability and clearance evaluations and adjudications; research, analysis and assessment of personnel security administrative and investigative issues; industrial security program administration; and customer-facing automated systems program administration?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee serving under a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service? You must submit an SF-50 that shows you currently work for DHS.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Which of the following functions have you performed as a regular part of your duties?
 A. I have adjudicated personnel security investigations for clearances.
 B. I have made suitability determinations for public trust positions.
 C. I have developed new office procedures.
 D. I have routinely provided advice and assistance regarding security clearances or background investigations.
 E. I have conducted additional investigative work when required.
 F. I have experience using Personnel Security management tools and portals (e.g., QART, CVS, CES, ISMS and e-QIP and classified network systems, i.e., JWICS and HSDN) to initiate, monitor, verify or report status on background investigations and security clearances.
 G. None of the above.
6. From the statements below, please choose the responses that describe your experience interacting with various groups and individuals.
 A. My experience involves working with external management officials to resolve issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving.
 B. My experience involves working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis.
 C. My experience involves educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems.
 D. My experience involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance.
 E. None of the above.
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
7. From the statements below, choose the response that best describes your experience interpreting regulations and formulating recommendations.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.
8. From the statements below, choose the response that best describes your experience developing and implementing adjudicative policies, procedures, programs and standards.
 A. I do not have experience or demonstrated capability in performing this activity, but I am willing to learn.
 B. I have limited experience in performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 C. I have a fair amount of experience and a fair amount of demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform this activity more effectively.
 D. I have considerable experience and considerable demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively.
 E. I have extensive experience and extensive demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I am considered an expert; I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. I have received verbal and/or written recognition from others in carrying out this activity.
9. Choose the statements that describe your experience communicating in writing to a variety of audiences on security related items.
 A. I have written Departmental policy and procedural documents.
 B. I have planned and produces strategies, background papers, talking points, issue papers, and prepared security status reports.
 C. I have prepared analytical summaries or justifications, investigative reports, and/or articles for periodicals, briefs, and/or proposals.
 D. I have provided reviews and comments on changes in regulations, procedures, newsletter articles or policy statements.
 E. I have written technical material targeted for emergency preparedness and/or personnel security.
 F. I have written detailed narrative reports.
 G. I have answered correspondence on security information.
 H. None of the above.
10. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your knowledge of Personnel Security Reporting Requirements.
 A. I possess comprehensive understanding of Personnel Security Reporting Requirements concepts and processes and apply them in exceptionally difficult situations.
 B. I possess a broad understanding of Personnel Security Reporting Requirements concepts and processes and apply them in considerably difficult situations. I generally require little or no guidance.
 C. I possess understanding of Personnel Security Reporting Requirements concepts and processes and apply them in difficult situations.
 D. None of the above.
11. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience with managing a continuous evaluation program.
 A. I have managed a continuous evaluation program as part of day-to-day job duties.
 B. I work as part of a team on a continuous evaluation program.
 C. I have an understanding of a continuous evaluation program.
 D. None of the above.
12. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience with the adjudicative standards.
 A. Creates and advises others inside and outside of the organization on adjudication standards.
 B. Advises others inside of the organization on adjudication standards.
 C. Explains adjudication standards to employees.
 D. None of the above.
13. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience processing and issuing statements of reasons for denial or revocation of security eligibility.
 A. Processing and issuing statements of reasons for denial or revocation of security eligibility as part of day-to-day job duties.
 B. Working with others to process and issue statements of reasons for denial or revocation of security eligibility.
 C. Has an understanding of but does not process or issue statements of reasons for denial or revocation of security eligibility.
 D. None of the above.
14. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience advising management and employees on due process procedures/requirements.
 A. Advises management and employees on due process procedures/requirements.
 B. Advises employees on due process procedures/requirements.
 C. Works with others on reviewing due process procedures/requirements.
 D. None of the above.
15. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience implementing and prioritizing security program changes, synchronizing workload adjustments and allocating or reallocating resources.
 A. Implementing and prioritizing security program changes, synchronizing workload adjustments and allocating or reallocating resources is part of my daily job duties.
 B. Synchronizing workload adjustments and allocating or reallocating resources.
 C. Allocating or reallocating resources as needed.
 D. None of the above.
16. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience preparing written inspection reports, policies, and procedures.
 A. Preparing and editing written inspection reports, policies, and procedures for senior level leaders inside and outside of an organization.
 B. Preparing and editing written inspection reports, policies, and procedures for senior level leaders inside of an organization.
 C. Reviews written inspection reports, policies, and procedures for editing errors.
 D. None of the above.
17. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience providing oral presentations to a diverse audience on security policy and procedures.
 A. Create and present oral presentations to a diverse audience on security policy and procedures.
 B. Reviews content for oral presentations to be given to a diverse audience on security policy and procedures.
 C. Creates power point presentations.
 D. None of the above.
18. From the statements below, please choose the statement(s) that best describes your communication skills.
 A. I have regularly served as a subject matter expert in dealing with managers and executives.
 B. I have regularly participated in discussions with managers and executives in which the purpose was to plan, coordinate, or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific business problems.
 C. I have regularly conducted discussions as a program representative, in which the purpose was to influence, motivate, or persuade persons or groups.
 D. I have regularly justified, persuaded, negotiated, or resolved matters involving significant or controversial policy or program issues.
 E. None of the above.
19. From the statements below, choose the response that best describes your experience gathering and evaluating information and data.
 A. I have applied analytical and evaluating methods, theories, and techniques to provide recommendations on technical issues (e.g., researching and analyzing documents, compiling and charting statistical data, gathering, summarizing and analyzing information for incorporation into final reports and carrying out specified portions or segments of specific projects)
 B. I have tracked and monitored completion of assignments and prepared reports that evaluate results and document any trends.
 C. I have conducted analysis, reviews, and studies of operational and administrative programs and processes in-order to provide recommended solutions and improvements.
 D. None of the above.
20. From the statements below, select the responses that describe your experience applying suitability and national security adjudication standards and procedures to perform the following security activities.
 A. Evaluating the impact of the information received on the individual’s suitability for employment.
 B. Evaluating the impact of the information received on the individual’s eligibility for security clearance.
 C. Applying technical knowledge, analyzing problems, and calculating risks, accurate data entry skills are required for annotating and documenting client database, spreadsheets, and related reporting mechanisms.
 D. Preparing adjudicative narratives to support suitability and eligibility determinations.
 E. Making security checks for processing clearances for employee’s official foreign travel.
 F. Ensuring timely notification of final adjudicative outcomes in CVS.
 G. None of the above.
21. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, ALL of the information provided on this application is true, accurate, and complete, and that this application for employment is made in good faith. I understand that a false statement on any part of this application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that I may be punished by fine or imprisonment for falsification of my employment application (18 USC 1001). I understand that information I give may be investigated as allowed by law or Executive order. Do you understand and agree to all the above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected