Position Title
Wildland Firefighter (Fire Management Planning/Training)
Agency
Bureau of Land Management
Announcement Number
FADHA-25-12761210-AE Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 9, 2025 to Monday, July 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Career Transition Assistance Plan:  Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced or surplused from the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which I have been or will be separated; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.   
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan: Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am currently in a position at the same grade level or higher than the position being announced; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Fillmore, UT
 B. Moab, UT
 C. Monticello, UT
 D. Price, UT
 E. Salt Lake City, UT
 F. Vernal, UT
Survey Questions
1. My resume contains hours worked per week for each season and position held. For example, 1 year of experience is equivalent to 12 months at 40 hours per week (full-time). Part-time hours are prorated. I understand that I will not receive any credit for a position listed that does not include hours worked per week.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I consent to the release of information about my ability and fitness for Federal employment by employers, schools, law enforcement agencies, and other individuals and organizations to investigators, human resource specialists, and other authorized employees or representatives of the Federal Government. I understand that for some other sources of information, a separate specific release may be needed, and I may be contacted for such a release at a later date.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I have read the "How to Apply" & "Required Documents" sections and understand that failure to submit any required documents may result in my being found not qualified.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. My resume contains hours worked per week for each position and/or season of experience held. I understand that failure to adequately include this information may affect my qualification determination for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I understand that additional selections may be made from this vacancy, within the same geographical area, by other bureaus from within the DOI, through shared recruiting activities, and my application may be shown to multiple hiring offices. Additional selections for similar positions across the entire Department of the Interior within the local commuting area(s) identified in this vacancy announcement may be made. By applying, I agree to have my application shared with any interested selecting official(s) within the DOI. There is no option to opt-out as my information will not be shared with other hiring agencies outside of the DOI. Applying to this announcement does not replace the need to apply to other job opportunity announcements for which you wish to receive consideration.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. I understand that I must ensure my resume, supporting documents (SF-50 or other official document to verify date of birth), transcripts, fire qualifications (IQCS), etc., are not password protected or contain redacted information that could make my application package ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported in your resume and supporting documents.
1. I qualify for the GS-09 level because I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-08 in the federal service. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience qualifying for this position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Indicate the one response that best describes your level of experience and/or training in developing individual fire training plans to assist wildland firefighters in meeting NWCG Red Card Qualifications.

 A. I have served on a wildland fire Training and Qualifications Committee at the regional, geographic area or national level, discussing fire management training/qualifications issues and evaluating new fire training courses to develop annual fire training schedules for a wildland fire staff.
 B. I have served on a wildland fire Training and Qualifications Committee at the local level, discussing fire management training/qualifications issues and evaluating new fire training courses to develop annual fire training schedules for a wildland fire staff.
 C. I have knowledge of or experience with fire management training and qualifications requirements, but I have not served on a training committee.
 D. I do not have any experience, education or training in performing this task.
3. Select the statement that best describes your work coordinating and conducting large-scale training programs.

 A. I coordinate training programs with the responsibility for logistics, coordinating speakers, planning and executing the sessions.
 B. I coordinate and conduct training programs with responsibility for all planning, logistics, and written materials.
 C. I have assisted with the coordination of training programs but have not taken a lead role.
 D. I have not participated in the coordination of public event programs.
4. Indicate the statement that best describes your ability to develop, implement and evaluate fire training products, policies, and procedures.

 A. I have developed, implemented and evaluated fire training products, policies, and procedures at the national level.
 B. I have developed, implemented and evaluated fire training products, policies, and procedures at the state level.
 C. I have developed, implemented and evaluated fire training products, policies, and procedures at the local level.
 D. I have experience organizing training programs and developing training policies and procedures.
 E. None of the above.
5. Select the statement that best describes your ability to communicate orally.

 A. I have significant experience speaking to large groups of managers and employees in a training or seminar setting or in verbally advising top management about topics that are controversial in nature or have a high budgetary impact.
 B. I have significant experience speaking to small groups of managers and employees in a training or seminar setting or in verbally advising groups of supervisors and managers about topics that affect individual personnel actions.
 C. I have experience speaking to small groups of managers and employees in a training setting or in verbally advising supervisors and managers, one-on-one, about topics that affect individual personnel actions.
 D. I have some experience verbally advising supervisors and managers, one-on-one, about topics that affect individual personnel actions.
 E. I do not have the experience indicated above.
6. Select the statement that best describes your experience using written and oral communications to convey technical information and messages to interagency fire personnel, contractors, research scientists, management officials at the regional and/or national level (or equivalent).

 A. I have not had experience performing this task.
 B. I have limited experience conveying technical information and messages to interagency fire personnel, contractors, research scientists, academia, and management officials at the local unit level. Limited is defined as being performed on an infrequent basis, normally less than 3-4 times per year.
 C. I have a moderate level of experience conveying technical information and messages to interagency fire personnel, contractors, research scientists, academia, and management officials at the local unit level. Moderate is defined as being performed on an occasional basis, normally monthly.
 D. I have extensive experience conveying technical information and messages to interagency fire personnel, contractors, research scientists, academia, and management officials at the local unit level. Extensive is defined as being performed on a frequent basis, normally daily or weekly.
7. Identify the fire management operations you have been responsible for as part of your job:

 A. Mobilization and dispatch coordination
 B. Fire communications systems
 C. Fire prevention and education
 D. Fire suppression and preparedness
 E. Training
 F. Aviation
 G. Logistics
 H. Equipment development and deployment
 I. None of the above.
8. Indicate your level of experience, education or training as it relates to operations and maintenance of specialized equipment used to respond to wildland and prescribed fire situations.

 A. I am considered an expert in operations and maintenance of specialized wildland fire equipment.
 B. I have performed operations and maintenance of specialized wildland fire equipment as a regular part of a job and independently without supervision.
 C. I have performed operations and maintenance of specialized wildland fire equipment on the job. I was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have had education or training in operations and maintenance of specialized wildland fire equipment but have not yet performed it on the job.
 E. I have not had education, training, or experience in operations and maintenance of specialized wildland fire equipment.
9. Select the statement that best describes your experience with the Incident Qualifications and Certification System (IQCS) including training, reporting or account management.

 A. I have working experience with all facets of the Incident Qualifications and Certification System. I know and understand the qualification and certification process including account management, training and reporting or I have performed as an account manager.
 B. I have a working knowledge and some experience with the Incident Qualification and Certification System, or I have had an account in the system.
 C. I have limited knowledge of the qualification and certification process, but I do not have any direct experience working with the Incident Qualification and Certification System.
 D. I have no knowledge of or experience with the Incident Qualifications and Certification System.
10. Select the one response that best describes the highest level of experience you have in data collection and analysis in an adult education or training environment:

 A. I am considered an expert in data collection and data analysis including use of statistical software such as SPSS, Microsoft Excel, or Microsoft Access to perform statistical analysis of data.
 B. I perform data collection and data analysis including use of statistical software such as SPSS, Microsoft Excel, or Microsoft Access to perform statistical analysis of data as a regular part of a job and without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 C. I have education or training in data collection and data analysis including use of statistical software such as SPSS, Microsoft Excel, or Microsoft Access to perform statistical analysis of data, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 D. I have no education, training or experience in data collection and data analysis or in the use of statistical software to perform statistical analysis of data.
11. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected