Position Title
MAINTENANCE MECHANIC
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJG2512830532DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, November 6, 2025 to Monday, November 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Maintenance Mechanic position with Department of Defense. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Maintenance Mechanic duties without more than normal supervision.

 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex maintenance and repair activities at a Medical Facility to include replacing floors, ceilings and or walls, maintaining electronic and conventional locks, repairing electrical outlets, switches and fixtures. I am skilled in the use and operation of common hand and power tools and measuring devices of the carpentry, masonry, roofing, engraving, electrical, plumbing and painting trades to perform a variety of tasks in performing maintenance of buildings and facilities. I also am skilled in the operation and repair of motor vehicles, performing spot checks and preventative maintenance. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of maintenance and repair activities at a Medical Facility to include replacing floors, ceilings and or walls, maintaining electronic and conventional locks, repairing electrical outlets, switches and fixtures. I am skilled in the use and operation of common hand and power tools and measuring devices of the carpentry, masonry, roofing, engraving, electrical, plumbing and painting trades to perform a variety of tasks in performing maintenance of buildings and facilities. I also am skilled in the operation and repair of a motor vehicles, performing spot checks and preventative maintenance. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common maintenance and repair activities at a Medical Facility. I am skilled in the use and operation of common hand and power tools and measuring devices of the carpentry, masonry, roofing, engraving, electrical, plumbing and painting trades to perform a variety of tasks in performing maintenance of buildings and facilities. I also am skilled in the operation and repair of motor vehicles, performing spot checks and preventative maintenance. In addition, I have the ability to operate a motor vehicle and perform preventative maintenance. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple repair or maintenance work or I have received training on the use of basic hand tools or.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙