Position Title
Census Field Manager (CFM) (SC)
Agency
U.S. Census Bureau
Announcement Number
FLD-2025-0045-FMCG-SC-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, June 23, 2025 to Friday, August 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.
 
2. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
3. Are you a current employee of the Department of Commerce (DOC) who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service? If yes, confirm you meet all of the following requirements:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy;
Your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy;
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the Career Transition Programs resource page located on USAJobs.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency (other than the Department of Commerce) who meets the definition of displaced from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?

If yes, confirm that you meet the following eligibility requirements:
 you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
 you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent; AND
You were separated from your position of record less than one year ago.
For more information, review the Career Transition Programs resource page located on USAJobs.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
CFM Special Census
1. Are you currently employed by another Federal government agency? (If you answer yes, and if you are selected, you will need to provide more information about your other federal position.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a retired Federal employee receiving an annuity? NOTE: If you answer yes, you will need to provide more information about your annuity before selection.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Have you accepted a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP/"buyout") from a Federal agency within the past 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Do any of your relatives currently work for the Census Bureau? The Census Bureau defines a relative as a parent, spouse, child, grandparent, sibling (including half), aunt, uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, in-laws, and step relatives.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. To gain the highest levels of cooperation and trust from the public, the Census must ensure that those selected to the Census Field Manager positions do not have any conflicts of interest. Please let us know if you are currently an elected official, or an employee/volunteer with any of the following:
 A. Elected Official
 B. Local, State or Tribal Government
 C. Law Enforcement Organization or Agency
 D. Immigration Organization of Agency
 E. Tax Collection Organization or Agency
 F. None of the Above
Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you have one year of specialized experience equivalent as indicated in the announcment? (See the 'Qualifications' section for a definition of
specialized experience)
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Please indicate where in your resume you describe your experience to support your answer to the previous question
3. Please select the answer that best describes your experience demonstrating the ability to provide direct supervision over employees and supervisors to accomplish production and quality standards
 A. I have experience managing a staff of employees that included at least two levels/tiers of subordinate management (e.g. I supervised manager(s) who, in turn, supervised other supervisor(s) or team-lead(s)
 B. I have experience managing a staff of employees that included one level/tier of subordinate management (e.g. I supervised manager(s) who, in turn, supervised office or clerical staff
 C. I have experience managing a staff of employees that included office or clerical staff.
 D. None of the above
4. I have performed the following supervisory functions in work unit or team assignments.
 A. Review the work of other team or section members
 B. Plan work for team or section members and identify necessary resources to accomplish their work
 C. Set short-term and long-term work priorities for team or section members
 D. Assign work to team members based on priorities, the difficulty and requirements of assignments, and the capabilities of employees
 E. Evaluate work performance of team members
 F. Provide advice, counsel, or instruction to employees on work and administrative matter
 G. Assess/assist during job candidate interviews for position vacancies
 H. Identify developmental and training needs of employees
 I. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. Do you have experience managing employees who work in multiple geographic locations and ensuring that work product is conducted in
accordance with government or corporate policies and regulations?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Do you have the ability to communicate to a diverse audience in technical and non-technical terms?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Identify the tasks that describe your communication experience
 A. Contact others in writing to obtain information.
 B. Write reports and other materials for a specific audience.
 C. Prepare written presentations of factual data and information.
 D. Present factual data and information in person.
 E. Develop materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences.
 F. Conduct briefings, meetings, or conferences.
 G. Explain nontechnical information in writing.
 H. Explain nontechnical information in person.
 I. Notify individuals or offices in writing of decisions, problems, or further actions needed.
 J. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
8. Do you have experience responding to multiple customer demands?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Indicate your experience setting priorities; and developing, monitoring, and/or analyzing detailed program/project requirements and
implementation schedules.
 A. Negotiating with counterparts within my organization in areas of project requirements, specifications, schedules, processes, and prioritization.
 B. Advising superiors regarding the best course of action on projects by providing implications regarding feasibility, risk, schedule, resources, etc.
 C. Setting priorities and monitoring progress of projects.
 D. Analyzing detailed project requirements and implementation schedules.
 E. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
10. Do you have experience establishing and maintaining working relationships with various levels of management within an organization and/or
performing outreach to external parties and stakeholders to present program goals, strategies and objectives?
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Do you have experience using an automated data collection control system to manage and monitor data collection for a large-scale
decentralized data collection operation that requires interaction with laptop or handheld devices?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected