Position Title
Advance Practice Nurse (Behavioral Health/Psychiatric)
Agency
Indian Health Service
Announcement Number
IHS-25-BJ-12745361-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 30, 2025 to Wednesday, December 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a recipient of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (IHCIA) Health Profession Scholarship authorized under Public Law 94-437?
If yes, confirm:
You have completed or will be completing the requirements of the approved health profession program within the established timeframe
Meet all eligibility criteria
Entitled to a one-time priority referral/selection to fulfill their obligation to provide public service
You will be required to submit a copy of your transcripts. If you are pending completion of a health profession degree submit a copy of your transcripts and written proof from the education institution's registrar which provides the date for completing the professional program.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you an American Indian/Alaska Native who is enrolled in a federally recognized tribe as defined by the Secretary of Interior? The Indian Health Service gives qualified American Indian/Alaska Natives preference when filling vacancies in accordance with the Indian Preference Act of 1934 (Title 25, USC, Section 472), with approved exceptions.

If eligible, submit a copy of your Bureau of Indian Affairs Form 4432, "Verification of Indian preference for employment in the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Indian Health Service," that has been completed by authorized tribal or BIA Officials. For more information, review the IHS Indian Preference guidelines: http://www.ihs.gov/jobs/permanentDocs/indianpreference.pdf.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. This position is covered by Public Law 101-630, the Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Protection Act (25 United States Code Chapter 34) requiring contact or control over Indian children. Due to this law, the agency must ensure that persons hired for these positions have not been arrested for or charged with certain crimes involving a child. Responding yes to this question can make you ineligible for employment in this position. You will be contacted if additional information is required. Have you ever been arrested for or charged with a crime involving a child?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. This position is covered by Public Law 101-630, the Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Protection Act (25 United States Code Chapter 34) requiring contact or control over Indian children. Due to this law, the agency must ensure that persons hired for these positions have not been found guilty of or pleaded nolo contendere or guilty to certain crimes against persons or offenses committed against children. Responding yes to this question makes you ineligible for employment in this position. You will be contacted if additional information is required. Have you ever been found guilty of, or entered a plea of nolo contendere (no contest) or guilty to, any felonious offense, or any two or more misdemeanor offenses under federal, state, or tribal law involving crimes of violence; sexual assault, molestation, exploitation, contact or prostitution; or crimes against persons; or offenses committed against children?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I certify that (1) my responses to questions one and two are made under penalty of perjury, which is punishable by fine under title 18 of the United States Code, or imprisonment of not more than five years, or both; and (2) I have received notice that a criminal check will be conducted. I understand my right to obtain a copy of any criminal history report made available to the Indian Health Service and my right to challenge the accuracy and completeness of any information contained in the report.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. Basic Requirements - Education
In order to qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements for a nurse position. Select the response that most closely and accurately describes your background which demonstrates how you meet the education requirements. Select only one response and do not leave blank. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from Foreign Nursing School: Official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required for individuals who graduated from foreign nursing schools.
 A. I have successfully completed a graduate or higher level degree, bachelor’s degree, associate degree, or diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program. (You must provide copy of transcripts with your resume).
 B. I am currently enrolled in a professional nursing program and expect to complete the qualifying education within 9 months. (You must provide documentation from the professional program to support your expected completion date.)
 C. I do not have the education as described above.
2. Basic Requirements - Licensure
In order to qualify for this position, applicants must have passed the National Council Licensure Examination. In addition, they must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. Select the response that most closely and accurately describes your background which demonstrates how you meet the Licensure requirements. Select only one response and do not leave blank.
 A. I have passed the National Council Licensure Examination AND I possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. (You must provide a copy of your license and/or registration along with your resume).
 B. I do not have the professional registration.
3. Basic Requirements - Education (Advanced Practice Nurse Positions)
Select the one statement that best describes the education you meet for an Advanced Practice Nurse position. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained; OR, if you are a graduate from a Foreign Nursing School, official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required.
 A. I have successfully completed a graduate or higher level degree in nursing from an accredited educational program in the area of expertise or specialty indicated by the position. (You must provide copy of transcripts with your resume).
 B. I will be completing qualifying education within 9 months from an accredited educational program in the area of expertise or specialty indicated by the position.
 C. I do not have the education as described above.
4. Basic Requirements - Additional License Requirements for Advanced Practice Nurse Positions
In order to qualify for this position, applicants must be licensed or registered by a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States in the clinical specialty required by the position. Select the response that most closely and accurately describes your background which demonstrates how you meet the Licensure requirements. Select only one response and do not leave blank.
 A. I am licensed or registered by a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States in the clinical specialty required by this position.
 B. I am a student and expect to be licensed within the next 9 months.
 C. I do not have the requirements listed above.
5. Basic Requirements for the GS-0610-13
From the descriptions below, select the response that best describes your experience which demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GS-13.
 A. I have 1 year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. This specialized experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service as described in the vacancy announcement. Examples Include: Provides independent diagnostic, preventive and therapeutic psychiatric nursing and medical services for patients of varying complexity and advanced nature utilizing advanced clinical and analytical skills.
 B. I do not meet the experience as described above.
6. Selective Placement Factor:
Do you possess a psychiatric certification from ANCC (American Nursing Credentialing Center)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected