Position Title
AIRCRAFT MECHANIC
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
IN-12740867-AF-25-047 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, August 26, 2025 to Sunday, September 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
National Guard
1. Are you currently a member of the Indiana Air National Guard or willing and eligible to join? (NOTE: Air National Guard membership is required for this position. If you have prior service, please submit a copy of your DD-214 with your resume or state your current military grade and status)
 A. Yes, I am an Airman with the Indiana Air National Guard.
 B. No, I am a member of another states National Guard or an INARNG member but willing to join the Indiana Air National Guard.
 C. No, I am a Reservist/IRR or an active duty servicemember and willing to join the Indiana Air National Guard.
 D. No, I have no military status at this time but am willing to join the Indiana Air National Guard.
 E. No, I fall in one of the types of military status mentioned in B, C or D but do not wish to join the Indiana Air National Guard.
2. Are you currently within the military grades/ranks of E3 thru E5?
 A. Yes, I am within the grades/ranks listed above.
 B. No, I am not within the grades/ranks listed above but I have prior service that falls within the ranks above, or I am able to join within the ranks listed above.
 C. No, I am not within the grades/ranks listed above.
3. Prior to appointment, individuals will undergo a background check to validate suitability for employment with the federal government as permitted by law. Items checked include, but are not limited to all criminal history record information, employment history, education and fiscal accountability/responsibility. IAW 5 CFR 302.203, the following, among others, may be included as disqualifying reasons: (1) Dismissal from employment for delinquency or misconduct; (2) Criminal, infamous, dishonest, immoral, or notoriously disgraceful conduct; (3) Intentional false statement or deception or fraud in examination or appointment; (4) Habitual use of intoxicating beverages to excess; (5) Reasonable doubt as to the loyalty of the person involved to the Government of the United States; (6) Any legal or other disqualification which makes the individual unfit for service; or (7) Lack of United States citizenship.
 A. I give my permission for the Indiana National Guard to conduct a background check on me.
 B. I do not give my permission for the Indiana National Guard to conduct a background check and no longer wish to be considered for this position.
4. *PLEASE READ THIS CAREFULLY AS THE FOLLOWING HAS CHANGED
Indiana National Guard (INNG) Federal Technicians will wait 36 months after being selected for a new position before applying for another position within the INNG. If you meet the requirements listed below, you will need to submit a signed Exception to Policy (ETP) memorandum with your application to be considered for the position. If you have questions about applicability, send an email explaining your situation to the HRO Staffing inbox listed below.
If you are a Tenure 0 Temporary employee (your position has a not-to-exceed date), you do not need an ETP memo, you will select No below and proceed with your application.
Did you become a new employee through a USAJobs announcement within the last 36 months?
If yes, you will need an ETP memo. Follow the instructions below.
If no, continue reading.
Did you receive a promotion, reassignment, conversion (to tenure 1, 2, or 3), or a grade reduction through a USAJobs announcement within the last 36 months? This does not include receiving a temporary promotion.
If yes, you will need an ETP memo. Follow the instructions below.
If no, select No below and proceed with your application.
If you require an ETP memorandum, you can download the template here: https://armyeitaas.sharepoint-mil.us/sites/NGIN-J1HR/SitePages/Technician-Staffing.aspx
The memorandum will be written by you, the employee, and signed by your supervisory chain up to the Director level. Directors and Supervisors will submit the signed memorandum for final review to the HRO Staffing inbox: ng.in.inarng.mbx.hro-staffing-section@army.mil
The Human Resources Officer (HRO) is the final approval for all ETP waivers. If approved, the memorandum will be returned to you and then submitted with your application.
 A. Yes, this applies to me, and I have submitted my ETP memo signed by the HRO.
 B. No, this does not apply to me.
5. Do you have any relatives (as defined below by 5 USC 3110) who are employed with the Indiana National Guard?

Per 5 USC 3110, A public official may not appoint, employ, promote, advance, or advocate for appointment, employment, promotion, or advancement, in or to a civilian position in the agency in which he is serving or over which he exercises jurisdiction or control any individual who is a relative of the public official. An individual may not be appointed, employed, promoted, or advanced in or to a civilian position in an agency if such appointment, employment, promotion, or advancement has been advocated by a public official, serving in or exercising jurisdiction or control over the agency, who is a relative of the individual. Relative is defined as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, or half sister.

Please list relatives names in narrative box below.
6. Do any of the following statuses apply to you?
 A. I have retired from Active Duty or the Active Guard Reserve.
 B. I am planning my Active Duty or AGR retirement.
 C. I have retired from Federal Employment or Civil Service.
 D. None of these apply to me, I have not retired from Active Duty Military or Federal Government employment
Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Does your resume support the General Experience criteria below?

Experience or training that has provided the candidate with the skill to remove and replace aircraft parts, accessories, and components, and to make adjustments and settings according to established specifications. Must be skilled in the use of hand tools and test equipment.

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Does your resume support the Specialized Experience criteria below?

18 months experience or training installing, adjusting, aligning, troubleshooting and functionally testing the various major and minor mechanical and pneudraulic systems on an aircraft during overhaul or modification. Experience coordinating the work of other mechanics, and scheduling maintenance to ensure completion of critical actions and optimum workflow. Must have the ability to instruct lower graded mechanics, military and other personnel in the disassembly and re-assembly of crash damaged engines, transmissions, gearboxes, hydraulic components, and fuel controls sufficient for the exhibit to be returned to its shipping container.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Respond to all the questions below. For each question, choose the response below that best describes your experience and/or training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application and information your references provide.
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
3. Coordinates and oversees the work of journeyman level workers in other trades working simultaneously on the assigned aircraft. Reviews, trains and prepares to perform battle damage assessment/repair. Participates in mission generation/regeneration operations. Directs multiple specialists in preparing aircraft for combat operations. Expedites aircraft operations to include concurrent servicing, hot pit refueling and/or combat turns or integrated combat turns. Performs preflight, post-flight, thru flight, periodic, isochronal, phase, hourly and special inspections, as well as servicing, defueling, scheduled and unscheduled maintenance. Serves as the technical authority to advise on, inspect and approve all airframe, mechanical, electrical/environmental, avionics, engine and pneudraulic repairs on assigned aircraft. Works closely with the production control function to report current aircraft status; requests and coordinates specialist support for accomplishing maintenance exceeding sortie generation capabilities or time constraints. Controls and performs work assignments based upon priorities, workload, availability of parts, facilities, material and personnel. Assigns maintenance and repair functions to subordinate mechanics. Coordinates with production control to direct short notice availability of the aircraft to accomplish work on delayed discrepancies and other scheduled maintenance to meet mission requirements. Observes and inspects performance and work procedures to insure compliance with applicable technical publications, directives and local policy. Accomplishes operational tests of aircraft systems and components. Directs and performs the ground movement of aircraft. Launches, recovers, parks and services aircraft. Performs end of runway inspection. Installs, removes, inspects and adjusts aerial delivery systems to mission requirements. Makes diagnoses and solves malfunctions of aircraft systems and components by utilizing a wide variety of complex state of the art computerized and/or non computerized diagnostic and precision equipment, by studying layout drawings, blueprints and wiring diagrams and by analyzing construction and operating characteristics of aircraft and their components. Performs or oversees maintenance such as troubleshooting, removing, repairing, replacing, rigging, aligning, cleaning, painting and corrosion control. May be required to assist DEPOT level maintenance activities on individual assigned aircraft discrepancies. Ensures all mission associated support (-21) equipment is available and serviceable for deployment and employment.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
4. Provides technical guidance and assistance to flight crews regarding observed discrepancies and experienced in-flight characteristics and system malfunctions. Performs or assists in aircrew debriefing when required.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
5. Make decisions on a wide range of matters that may involve changes to past precedents to ensure completion of the mission. Clears Red X symbols on aircraft forms, accomplishes or directs engine power runs, may taxi aircraft in accordance with applicable directives.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
6. Conducts and certifies Cross Utilization Training (CUT) of non WG-88XX series Aircraft Mechanics to meet mission requirements. Selects the appropriate instructional method, utilizing either formalized classroom or practical on-the-job method of instruction. Evaluates and certifies effectiveness of training by observation as the trainee performs the task(s). Determines experience and skill level of assigned personnel. Maintains Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) for assigned members.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected