Position Title
HUMAN RESOURCES ASSISTANT
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
MYPT-26-12810206 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, October 6, 2025 to Monday, October 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
1.
Are you a current Federal Employee? If yes, please attach a SF-50.  If no, are you claiming Military Spouse Preference and have uploaded all supporting documents?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the position of NAF Human Resources Assistant NF-0203-03. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. Answers must be supported by resume.


1.
Please indicate your current level of working experience in the field of Human Resources?
 I have three (3) of more years of working experience in the Human Resources field.
 I have between one (1) and three (3) years of working experience in the Human Resources field.
 I have less than one (1) year of working experience in the Human Resources field.
 I have no experience in the Human Resources field.


2.
What type of organizations have you provided HR services to? Select all that apply. (Must be supported by your Personnel Action Report (PAR), SF50 or Equivalent to include resume)
 A. Private business or private sector organization.
 B. Department of Defense Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF).
 C. Department of Defense Appropriated Funds (APF/GS).
 D. Government Agency outside of the Department of Defense (DOD).
 E. I do not have any experience in Human Resources.


3.
Please select ALL the Human Resources Information System(s) that you have utilized to include recruitment tools, payroll systems and background check programs, etc.
 A. E-QIP
 B. ADP
 C. KRONOS
 D. FEDHR
 E. SAP HR
 F. USA Staffing
 G. Other system not listed but documented on resume.
 H. Does not apply.


4.
My experience in the area of recruitment/staffing of government employees can best be described as:
 I have more than two (2) years private sector experience with the above.
 I have less than two (2) years private sector experience with the above.
 I have more than two (2) years APF (GS) experience with the above.
 I have less than two (2) years APF (GS) experience with the above.
 I have more than two (2) years Non-Appropriated Fund (NAF) experience with the above.
 I have less than two (2) years Non-Appropriated Fund (NAF) experience with the above.
 I have no experience as described above.


5.
My experience onboarding new employees, to include initiating background investigations, fingerprinting, creating OPF's etc. can best be described as:
 I have less than one (1) year of experience with the above.
 I have between one (1) and three (3) years of experience with the above.
 I have three (3) or more years of experience with the above.
 I have no experience.


6.
How many years of experience do you possess grading applicants, validating resumes, and using this data to create hiring certificates?
 I have less than one (1) year of documented experience in grading applicants, validating resumes and using data to create hiring certificates.
 I have between one (1) and three (3) years of documented experience in grading applicants, validating resumes and using data to create hiring certificates.
 I have between three (3) and four (4) years of documented experience in grading applicants, validating resumes and using data to create hiring certificates.
 I have more than four (4) years of documented experience in grading applicants, validating resumes and using data to create hiring certificates.
 I do not have this experience.


7.
Please select ALL additional systems that you have utilized or are familiar with within the Department of Defense (DoD)
 A. AMAG
 B. CITRIX
 C. ESAMS
 D. TWMS
 E. E-VERIFY
 F. CNIC LMS
 G. G2
 H. Other systems not listed but documented in resume.
 I. None.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙