Position Title
Supervisory Data Scientist
Agency
Veterans Affairs, Inspector General
Announcement Number
25-VAOIG-12795685 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 10, 2025 to Tuesday, September 16, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current VAOIG employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current VAOIG employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current VAOIG employee serving on a VRA appointment.



 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current VAOIG employee who currently holds (or have you previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Please choose one of the following so that we may determine your eligibility.
 A. I am a current permanent VAOIG employee with competitive status.
 B. I am a VAOIG employee currently serving on a Veterans' Recruitment Appointment (VRA).
 C. I am eligible for the Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP).
 D. I do not meet any of the above eligibility criteria.
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. San Diego, CA
 B. Denver, CO
 C. Washington, DC
 D. Kansas City, MO
 E. Austin, TX
 F. Seattle, WA
2. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Would you like the opportunity to be considered for similar positions that require the same knowledge, skills and abilities?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
5. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
Performance Appraisal
1. As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal which includes the final rating. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so. If you do not provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration. Type "yes" in the text box below if you are providing a performance appraisal meeting the above requirements with your application. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application, please provide a reason in the text box below. (This is required of all applicants regardless of prior federal service. "N/A" is not considered an acceptable response.)
Assessment 1
1. To be qualified for this position, you must meet the basic educational and/or work experience requirements for Data Scientist positions in the federal government. These requirements are:

A) A degree in mathematics, statistics, computer science, data science or field directly related to the position. The degree must be in a major field of study (at least at the baccalaureate level) that is appropriate for the position. OR
B) A combination of education and experience with courses equivalent to a major field of study (30 semester hours/45 quarter hours) as shown in paragraph A above, plus additional education or appropriate experience.

Choose the response that best describes your educational and/or work experience.


 A. I have a degree in mathematics, statistics, computer science, data science or field directly related to the position.
 B. I have a combination of education and experience with courses equivalent to a major field of study (30 semester hours/45 quarter hours) as shown in paragraph A above, plus additional education or appropriate experience.
 C. I do not have education or a combination of education and experience matching any of the choices above.
2. You must meet the specialized experience requirements for this position, with at least one (1) full year of experience at the GS-14 level, or equivalent. This experience as provided below, should have equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities required to successfully perform the duties of the position. This specialized experience includes:

- Using Structured Query Language (SQL), R, Python, Statistical Analysis System (SAS), or equivalent statistical analysis packages to query and analyze data from nation- or enterprise-wide data warehouses; AND
- Planning and directing statisticians and data scientists who are responsible for conducting statistical analysis;
- Planning, implementing, and directing robust processes to ensure that data for analysis are in high quality, methods for data analysis are sound, and interpretation of findings are objective to help make informed decisions; AND
- Planning, implementing, and directing overarching analytic projects and initiatives.

Indicate below how you meet the specialized experience as defined above.


 A. I meet the specialized experience as defined above with at least one (1) full year of this experience at the GS-14 level, or equivalent.
 B. I do not meet the specialized experience as defined above.
3. Select the one statement that best describes your level of experience performing quantitative and qualitative analyses.
 A. I have supervised others who are responsible for performing this task for at least 1 year (e.g., first or second level supervisor) and have experience independently developing plans and procedures using quantitative and qualitative methods for inquiries, audits, or program evaluations.
 B. I have used quantitative and qualitative methods for the purpose of developing new or revised policies and procedures and recommending inquiry, audit, or evaluation approaches.
 C. I have experience in using analytical tools such as questionnaires, surveys, and data collection instruments to analyze, assess and provided recommendations on issues or situations.
 D. I do not have any experience performing quantitative and qualitative analyses as described above.
4. Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience performing risk assessments.
 A. I have supervised others who are responsible for performing this task (e.g., first or second level supervisor)
 B. I have performed risk assessments in the context of healthcare delivery, benefit awards, and financial audits.
 C. I have performed risk assessments in the context of an assessment of internal controls.
 D. I have performed risk assessments in accordance with other specified criteria.
 E. None of the above
5. I have experience supervising and directing data scientists and statisticians to conduct projects on healthcare, finance, or benefit programs and applicable guidelines to assist in the development of data analytics and predictive modeling to detect fraud, waste, or abuse.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Indicate which programming, statistical, computational, or mathematical modeling software you use for analysis.
 A. Programming in Advanced Excel (i.e., Programming Macros using Visual Basic)
 B. Modeling, data mining, machine learning using statistical software, such as SAS, R, Python and STATA
 C. Modeling, data mining, machine learning using a computational software, such as MATLAB and Mathematica, or computer programming language such as C/C++, Java, or SQL
 D. Performing analysis using Linear Programming (LP) Models, Computable General Equilibrium (CGE) Models, or Computational non-linear optimization models
 E. Performing analysis involving simulations
 F. None of the above
7. Select the answer that best describes your experience analyzing and evaluating program effectiveness in meeting established goals and objectives using statistical analysis and data assimilation tools.
 A. I have served in a supervisory position with overall responsibility for planning, implementing, and directing analyzing and evaluation of cross-divisional/departmental programs and their effectiveness by synthesizing data from departmental performance and budget information, forecasting models, or statistical analysis and preparing analytical plans and reports to guide recommended decisions.
 B. I have served in a position with overall responsibility for analyzing and evaluating cross-divisional/departmental programs and their effectiveness by synthesizing data from departmental performance and budget information, forecasting models, or statistical analysis and preparing analytical plans and reports to guide recommended decisions.
 C. I have served in a position with overall responsibility for analyzing and evaluating a program's effectiveness by synthesizing data from departmental performance information, forecasting models, or statistical analysis and preparing analytical plans and reports to guide recommended decisions.
 D. I have served in a position that supported or assisted an analyst responsible for analyzing and evaluating a program's effectiveness by synthesizing data from departmental performance information, forecasting models, or statistical analysis and preparing analytical plans and reports to guide recommended decisions.
 E. I do not have experience with this task.
8. Indicate which statement best describes your experience in employing statistical theory through modeling, simulation, and data analyses to deliver measurable improvements.
 A. I have supervised staff to complete projects using statistical theory, principles, research, and the utilization of modeling, simulation, and data analysis.
 B. I have experience completing projects using statistical theory, principles, research, and the utilization of modeling, simulation, and data analyses.
 C. I have experience providing answers to questions pertaining to theory, principles, and research methods pertinent to data analyses.
 D. I have experience performing data analyses utilizing modeling and simulation.
 E. I have experience interpreting the results of data analyses utilizing modeling and simulation.
 F. None of the above
9. Select the answers that best describe your experience level with respect to advising high-ranking officials on the quality, effectiveness and efficiency of program operations and industry best practices.
 A. I have supervised and directed a team to identify problems on enterprise-wide programs involving healthcare delivery, benefit awards, and financial management and made recommendations to senior officials to correct them.
 B. I have identified issues on quality of care or other healthcare related metrics and made recommendations to resolve them.
 C. I have identified potential issues on benefit programs and made recommendations to resolve them.
 D. I have identified program efficiency and effectiveness as it relates to the management and operations of people, material, equipment, and working conditions and made recommendations to resolve them.
 E. I have identified errors or inefficiency within financial management and cost and accounting systems and made recommendations to resolve them.
 F. None of the above
10. Please tell us where this experience is described in your resume.
11. Indicate your highest level of experience advancing and communicating statistical analysis initiatives.
 A. I provided briefings to officials external to my organization regarding major statistical analysis initiatives.
 B. I briefed the organizations executives regarding major statistical analysis initiatives and project updates.
 C. I briefed my immediate supervisor regarding major statistical analysis initiatives and project updates.
 D. I have proofread and edited drafts of written materials (e.g., statistical reports, publications) and make recommendations to senior staff regarding their clarity, organization, and layout.
 E. I have written none of the above.
12. Which of the following best describes your experience with written communications in the field of statistical analysis?
 A. I have experience preparing and delivering written presentations that involved negotiating and defending statistical analysis issues and positions on behalf of my organization.
 B. I have experience preparing and publishing written presentations involving statistical analysis data, information, or procedures to others. (Examples of this experience includes developing training materials, preparing analytic project design documents, or preparing briefings of analytic findings for use in identifying leads and opportunities for inspection, audit, and investigation).
 C. I have experience preparing status reports and briefing papers involving communicating project implementation, methods, and findings.
 D. None of the above
13. Select all the following duties you have experience performing in relation to interpretation and presentation of analytical data.
 A. I have written management reports.
 B. I have directed staff and contractors in interpreting and presenting analytic data.
 C. I have directed others who are responsible for conducting training on statistical approaches to collect information.
 D. I have advised others on the best software to use, or programs to utilize to complete studies or statistical projects.
 E. I have advised senior-level managers, government officials on results of projects or to provide project updates.
 F. I have represented the organization in meetings with internal and external stakeholders.
 G. None of the above
14. Which of the following best describes your experience level with respect to planning, implementing, and coordinating analysis projects and initiatives?
 A. I have supervised others who are responsible for performing this task (e.g., first or second level supervisor).
 B. I have performed this task (e.g., sole author or team leader).
 C. I have performed this task as part of a team (e.g., coauthor, team member).
 D. I have performed this task with supervision (e.g., research assistant, intern).
 E. I have had education or training in performing in this area but have not yet performed it on the job.
 F. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing in this area.
15. Please tell us where this experience is described in your resume.
16. Which of the following project management related tasks have you led or been the person with primary responsibility on developing visualization applications (e.g., dashboard) to communicate findings?
 A. Drafting of project plan
 B. Identifying resource requirements
 C. Assigning tasks to project members
 D. Reporting project progress to management throughout its duration
 E. Ensuring potential users and management involvement throughout the application development process
 F. Resolving critical issues affecting the configuration of the IT infrastructure
 G. Coordinating the demonstration of new and enhanced applications to potential users and management
 H. I have not led or had primary responsibility on any of the above tasks
17. Which of the following best describes your experience level with respect to requirements collection, synthesis, and analysis?
 A. I have performed this task (e.g., sole author or team leader).
 B. I have performed this task as part of a team (e.g. coauthor, team member).
 C. I have performed this task with supervision (e.g., research assistant, intern).
 D. I have had education or training in performing in this area but have not yet performed it on the job.
 E. I have not had education, training or experience in performing in this area.
18. Choose the statement(s) that best describes your experience involving a wide range of analytic project management activities that typically extend and apply to an entire organization.
 A. Strategic planning
 B. Capital planning and investment control
 C. Analytics project management
 D. Policy and standards development
 E. Architecture and infrastructure requirements and planning
 F. Auditing
 G. Information security management
 H. None of the above
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected