Position Title
Health Technician (Ophthalmology)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-12795841-25-KS Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 5, 2025 to Friday, September 19, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
5
6
7
8
2. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Health Technician (Ophthalmology) position. We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses must be supported by your resume and supporting documentation. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.
BASIC REQUIREMENTS
1. Experience and Education.
Experience. One year of experience in a health care field, such as but not limited to nursing, medical assistant, or health technician; OR,
Education. Two years above high school with a minimum of six semester hours directly related to a health care field or associate's degree in a health care related degree; OR,
Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of experience and education are qualifying. Examples are listed below:
Six months of experience in the health care field; and one year above high school; or
Six months of experience in the health care field and successful completion of a course for health care technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or ophthalmology technicians given by the U.S. Armed Forces; or
Six months of experience in the health care field and completion of an independent study course in Ophthalmic Medical Assisting.
Select the response that best describes your experience and/or education.
 A. I possess the experience.
 B. I possess the education.
 C. I possess a combination of qualifying experience and education.
 D. I do not possess this experience or education.
 E. Grandfathering Provision. All persons employed in VHA as a Health Technician (Ophthalmology) on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including certification requirements. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. Physical Requirements. If selected, you will be required to undergo and pass a pre-employment physical.

Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. English Language Proficiency. Health Technician (Ophthalmology) candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 7403(f).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Certification. All applicants must be certified as a Certified Ophthalmic Assistant (COA) with the Joint Commission on Allied Health Personnel in Ophthalmology (JCAHPO). The COA certification is JCAHPO's entry-level certification examination for a Health Technician (Ophthalmology).
Exception. Non-certified applicants who otherwise meet the minimum qualification requirements may be appointed as a graduate Health Technician (Ophthalmology) under the authority of 38 U.S.C. 7405(c)(2)(B). The appointing official may waive the requirement of certification for a period not to exceed two years for a Health Technician (Ophthalmology) that provides care under the supervision of an Ophthalmologist. The exception only applies below the full performance level. For grade levels at or above the full performance level the candidate must be certified. Failure to obtain COA certification during that period is justification for termination of the temporary appointment and may result in termination of employment.
Failure to Obtain Certification. In all cases, the Health Technician (Ophthalmology) must actively pursue meeting certification requirements starting from the date of appointment. At the time of appointment, the supervisor will provide the uncertified Health Technician (Ophthalmology) with the written requirement to obtain certification, the date by which the certification must be acquired, and the consequences for not becoming certified by the deadline. Failure to become certified within two years from date of appointment will result in removal from the Health Technician (Ophthalmology), GS-0640 series and may result in termination of employment.
Loss of Credentials. A Health Technician (Ophthalmology) who fails to maintain the required certification must be removed from the occupation, which may also result in termination of employment.

Please select the response that best describes your certification.
 A. I am certified as a Certified Ophthalmic Assistant (COA) with the Joint Commission on Allied Health Personnel in Ophthalmology (JCAHPO). Must provide your certificate or your JCAHPO ID Number.
 B. I am not certified as a Certified Ophthalmic Assistant (COA) with the Joint Commission on Allied Health Personnel in Ophthalmology (JCAHPO) and I meet the minimum qualification requirements. I understand that if selected, I will be appointed on a temporary appointment not to exceed two years and if I fail to obtain certification, my employment will be terminated. In addition, I understand that this makes me ineligible for a position at the full performance level, GS-8.
 C. I am not certified and I am not able to obtain certification.
GRADE DETERMINATIONS 
In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met when determining the grade of candidates.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. Health Technician (Ophthalmology) GS-5

Experience or Education. None beyond the basic requirements.

Do you possess the basic requirements for for this position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Health Technician (Ophthalmology) GS-06

Experience. One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade GS-5 level in federal service.

Select the response that best describes your one year of experience.


 A. I have one year of experience that is equivalent to the GS-5 level in federal service. As a trainee I have performed limited routine assignments under daily direct supervision; referred issues to the supervisor for a decision or help; Obtained and recorded vital signs including blood pressure, pulse, and glucose levels; Participated in performance of quality assurance activities such as staff meetings, mandatory educational in-services, quality control reports, systems redesign, and team and morale improvement. This experience is supported by my resume.
 B. I do not have the experience described in response A.
7. GS-6 Knowledge, Skills and Abilities(KSAs)
In addition to the one year of experience equivalent to the GS-5 in federal service, you must demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities(KSAs):
Knowledge of general outpatient clinical policies and procedures in a healthcare environment;
Ability to obtain, document and record demographic and medical information from patients in order to develop an accurate medical record;
Ability to use basic ophthalmic equipment; and
Knowledge of basic disinfection of non-critical reusable medical equipment.
In the textbox below, provide a response for all 4 knowledge, skills and abilities(KSA's). Provide supporting details of when, where and the experience that demonstrates your knowledge, your skill or your ability.
8. Health Technician (Ophthalmology) GS-07

Experience. One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, GS-6 level in federal service.

Select the response that best describes your experience.


 A. I have one year of experience that includes the following: Operating and monitoring commonly used equipment performing basic screening procedures; Assisting ophthalmology staff by obtaining an accurate medical and ophthalmic history; Measuring and recording visual acuity; Administering anesthetic eye drops; Performing basic tonometry; Estimating the anterior chamber depth and recording a simple spectacle reading through automated lensometry; Referring to the supervisor for a decision or assistance with deviations from regular procedures, unanticipated problems, complex patients and unfamiliar situations. This experience is supported by my resume.
 B. I do not have the one year of experience as described in response A.
9. Health Technician (Ophthalmology) GS-07, Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs)

In addition to this experience, you must demonstrate the following, Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs):
Knowledge of anatomy and function of the eye and basic ocular pharmacology;
Knowledge of outpatient eye care policies and procedures in a health care environment;
Ability to use basic ophthalmic diagnostic equipment to perform preliminary ocular testing;
Ability to perform minor extraocular surgical assisting; and
Ability to provide eye care patient education.
In the textbox below, provide a response for all 5 knowledge, skills and abilities(KSA's). Provide supporting details of when, where and the experience that demonstrates your knowledge, your skill or your ability.
10. Health Technician (Ophthalmology) GS-8 (Full Performance Level)

Experience. One year of experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level in federal service.

Select the response that best describes your experience.
 A. I have the one year of experience equivalent to the GS-7 level. My experience includes the following: Triaging patient phone calls or requests; Ensuring exam rooms are stocked with adequate supplies; Instructing patients on administration of eye drops and post-operative instructions; Measuring, comparing, and evaluating pupillary responses; Administering eye drops to dilate pupils; Performing basic color vision screening; Performing visual field testing (using Amsler grid or automated equipment); Performing basic imaging testing such as corneal topography and external photography; Performing basic ocular testing such as pachymetry, tear production with test strips, glare testing, stereo acuity, contrast sensitivity, potential acuity meter, measuring spectacles using both automated and manual lensometry and transposing cylinders; Assisting the ophthalmologist during minor ophthalmic surgical procedures and I am adept at applying sterile technique and infection control procedures; Performing autorefractor to determine spectacle prescription.
 B. I do not have the experience described in response A.
11. Health Technician (Ophthalmology) GS-8 Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs)

In addition to this experience, you must demonstrate the following, Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs):
Ability to perform advanced tonometry and pupil evaluation;
Ability to perform calculations for selection of intraocular lens;
Knowledge of clinic based ophthalmic surgical assisting;
Knowledge of eye anatomy and physiology;
Knowledge of medication effects and proper instillation in the eye;
Knowledge of optics; and
Knowledge of proper cleaning and maintenance of clinic equipment.
In the textbox below, provide a response for all 7 knowledge, skills and abilities(KSA's). Provide supporting details of when, where and the experience that demonstrates your knowledge, your skill or your ability.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected