Position Title
Law Enforcement Specialist (Instructor)
Agency
Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers
Announcement Number
FLETC-TOPS-26-12813699 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, October 14, 2025 to Friday, January 2, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND you:
• have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more; OR,
• are retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. You must also submit the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.
 Yes
 No


3.
(1) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is currently on Active Duty? 

-OR-

(2) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating of 100 percent at the time of retirement or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?

-OR-

(3) Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility for option 1 identified above, you must provide a valid copy of the marriage certificate or other documentation verifying marriage (such as any official documentation verifying a recognized common law marriage) and a copy of the orders verifying the military member is currently on active duty.

To verify your eligibility for options 2 and 3 identified above, you must submit the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15 and all supporting documentation identified on that document (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; death certificate and documentation identifying marital status at the time of death; disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service, etc..
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months?

-OR-

Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and are requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student or other experience related to this position?

-OR-

Are you a current or former Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your description of service or other proof of non-competitive eligibility. If you are a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who is requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility, please also provide the necessary documentation to support your request.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you currently employed as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service at the same grade level as this position or higher with the same or higher promotion potential?

-OR-

Were you formerly employed as a Federal civilian employee on a permanent competitive appointment or have you obtained career-conditional status (and are within 3 years of the date of separation or are a preference eligible) and have held the same grade as this position or higher with the same or higher promotion potential?

To verify your eligibility as a current or former Federal civilian employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1.
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management?

For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems.

-OR-

Are you a current:
• Postal Career Service Employee;
• Postal Rate Commission Employee;
• Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; or,
• Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee?

For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status.
 Yes
 No


7.
Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Glynco, GA
 B. Cheltenham, MD
 C. Artesia, NM
 D. Charleston, SC


2.
Select the appointment type(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one appointment type.
 A. Permanent
 B. Temporary - an appointment for 1 year that may be extended up to 2 years.
 C. Term - an appointment for 13 months that may be extended up to 4 years.
 D. Intermittent - WAE - time limited appointment not to exceed 1039 hours per year.


3.
Select the Law Enforcement Topical Area(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one topical area.
 A. Active Shooter Instructor: performing and/or instructing law enforcement activities related to proper application of use of force techniques, law enforcement tactical techniques, active shooter response, and tactical medical procedures.
 B. Behavioral Science Instructor: performing and/or instructing law enforcement activities related to interviewing/interrogating suspects, witnesses, and victims; and/or detecting deception; and/or credibility assessment/source validation; and/or statement documentation and analysis; and/or conflict/critical incident stress management.
 C. Electronic Surveillance Instructor: performing and/or instructing law enforcement activities related to covert devices; electronic tracking; internet protocol cameras and undercover operations using equipment/ software to include micro-wave technology, audio records-digital, GPS data loggers and real-time tracking devices; and CCTV surveillance systems.
 D. Digital Photography/Video Instructor: performing and/or instructing law enforcement activities related to the use of filters; alternate light sources; and/or the processing/printing of captured images.
 E. Physical Techniques Instructor: performing and/or instructing law enforcement activities related to arrest techniques, defensive tactics, physical conditioning, tactical medicine application, and/or intermediate weapons.
 F. Firearms Instructor: performing and/or instructing law enforcement activities related to Basic Marksmanship Instruction (BMI), Practical Pistol Course (PPC), and Firearms Safety Rules and Regulations.
 G. Driver Instructor: performing and/or instructing law enforcement activities related to emergency response (ER); non-emergency vehicle operation (NEVO); traffic stops; pursuits; evasive driving; and/or precision intervention techniques.
 H. Enforcement Operations Instructor: performing and/or instructing law enforcement activities related to fields of tactics, practical application of use of force, and law enforcement officer operational and patrol techniques.
 I. Marine Instructor: performing and/or instructing law enforcement activities related to chart interpretation; electronic navigation; piloting and dead reckoning; vessel intercepts; vessel pursuits; and boarding procedures.
 J. Maritime Instructor: performing and/or instructing law enforcement activities related to boarding compliant and non-compliant large and small commercial vessels; conducting Risk and Vulnerability assessments on Seaport Terminals; vessel intercepts; vessel pursuits; pre-boarding procedures; boarding procedures; vessel search techniques; commercial vessel familiarization; commercial vessel tactical entry techniques; operating the Opposing Force Boat (OPFOR), Safety Boat and 65-foot underway classroom for the Coast Guard Non-compliant Vessel Operator Training Program.
 K. Leadership Instructor: performing and/or instructing law enforcement activities related to emotional intelligence; situational leadership; conflict management; ethics; interpersonal communications; and behavioral styles.
 L. General Investigative Skills Instructor: performing and/or instructing law enforcement activities related to case management; identifying, collecting, and preserving evidence; report writing; operational planning; handling informants; conducting surveillance; performing undercover operations; interviewing victims, witnesses, and suspects; assisting prosecutors with Grand Jury and/or other court proceedings; testifying under oath; and/or serving search and seizure warrants.
 M. Forensics and Special Investigative Skills Instructor: performing and/or instructing law enforcement activities related to drug investigations and/or crime scene investigations, including sequential drug testing; investigating clandestine methamphetamine labs; investigating marijuana grow operations; and recognizing the characteristics of various controlled substances (i.e., heroin, cocaine, marijuana, and crystal methamphetamine): using alternate light sources to locate evidence; collecting trace, biological, latent print, and impression evidence; identifying and preserving physical evidence; responding to, securing, and processing crime scenes; and/or collecting major case prints.
 N. Online Campus Instructor: performing and/or instructing law enforcement activities related to the research, design, development, implementation and evaluation of online law enforcement training.
 O. Counterterrorism Instructor: performing and/or instructing terrorism, prevention, response, and/or investigations, including law enforcement activities related to Physical Security/Critical Infrastructure protection; Executive Protection; Hazardous Materials/Weapons of Mass Destruction recognition, handling and mitigation; or Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) recognition, handling and mitigation.
 P. Financial Fraud Instructor: performing and/or instructing law enforcement activities related to financial crimes and/or fraud against the Federal Government (e.g. contract, grant, program, and benefits fraud; money laundering investigations; internet or related crimes; and/or the use of analytical software/techniques to analyze investigative/intelligence data [i.e. toll records, crime trends, etc]).
 Q. General Training Instructor: performing and/or instructing law enforcement activities related to Physical Evidence, Identity Documents, Fingerprints, Execution of a Search Warrant, Informants, Operational Planning, Drug recognition, Surveillance, Documentation/Report Writing, Weapons of Mass Destruction, Criminal Investigations, Archeological Resources Protection Act and/or Terrorism.
 R. Tactical Medicine Instructor: performing and/or instructing law enforcement activities related to tactical medicine application.
 S. Cyber/Digital Forensics Instructor: performing and/or instructing law enforcement activities related to computer or mobile device digital forensics; cyber investigations; computer network investigations; open source (online) investigations; and computer incident response.
 T. Instructor/Regional Coordinator: serving as a Regional Coordinator and faculty advisor responsible for coordinating and delivering FLETC training programs and courses of instruction; determining training program objectives and identifying related knowledge, skills and abilities which lead to the achievement of those training objectives; coordinating export training at domestic sites, with considerable planning and logistical activity associated with such efforts; and performing as an instructor in the classroom and conducts practical exercises during export training programs and technical assistance projects.


FLETC Data Questions
1.
How did you learn about this Department of Homeland Security (DHS) job opportunity announcement?
Career Fair
Met a FLETC representative at a recruitment event
Magazine
Newspaper
Radio
TV
Poster
Private Employment Office
State Employment Office (Unemployment Office)
Agency Human Resources Development (bulletin board or other announcement)
Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college
Federal, state, or local Job Information Center
Religious organization
College, university, or career placement counselor
Friend or relative working for this agency
Friend or relative not working for this agency
USAJOBS
Professional Association
Publication
Conference
College Event
Private information service
LinkedIn
Other


2.
Select the rating level you received, as applicable to your agency's performance management system, for your last performance appraisal. Please provide a copy of your last performance appraisal.
 Outstanding | Achieved Excellence
 Exceeds Fully Successful/Highly Successful | Exceeded Expectations
 Fully Successful/Pass | Achieved Expectations
 Minimally Satisfactory/Minimally Acceptable
 Unacceptable/Fail
 None of the above


3.
Select the types of awards you have received within the last three years.
 A. Quality Step Increase
 B. Special Act or Time Off Award
 C. Performance Award
 D. Honorary Award
 E. Letter of Commendation
 F. None of the above


4.
List any education and/or training related to this position (do not provide copies of certificates).


5.
I have thoroughly reviewed the 'How to Apply/Required Documents' & 'Qualifications' sections of this Vacancy Announcement to determine which supplemental documents to submit. This may include: Transcripts to verify undergraduate/graduate education; A Current/Non-Award SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, noting current position title, series, grade, position occupied, tenure, highest salary (including basic pay) and duty location if I am a current/former Federal employee; DD-214 if I am a veteran (and SF-15/VA Letter if applicable), etc. I understand that failure to fax or upload required documents by the vacancy announcement's closing date may result in loss of consideration. Answer to this question is required.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
In order to be considered for this position you must meet one of the selective placement factors. From the list below select the statement(s) that describes your experience.
 A. I have held a position as a sworn law enforcement officer, or agent with full arrest authority in the prevention, detection, apprehension, detention and/or investigation of felony and/or misdemeanor violations of Federal, state, local, tribal, or military criminal laws.
 B. I have held a position in the 1801 occupational series.
 C. None of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Have you graduated from a law enforcement academy? If graduated from an academy, please ensure your resume contains the academy's name and location (city, state) as well as your graduation date (MM/DD/YYYY).

For U.S. Coast Guard personnel only - If you were certified through the Boarding Officer Personnel Qualifications Standard Certification Program (PQS), you must include the certification date in your resume. You may be asked to provide a copy of the certification. Failure to provide this information in your resume may result in your loss of consideration.
 Yes
 No


3.
From the options below, select the one statement that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for a Law Enforcement Specialist (Instructor), GS-1801-13. NOTE: Your resume must support your claim of specialized experience, i.e. where, when and how you performed the work, or you may be found ineligible.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-12) or pay band in the Federal service, or equivalent experience in the private or public sector performing law enforcement duties directly related to the topical area (s) for which you are applying.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-12) or pay band in the Federal service, or equivalent experience in the private or public sector instructing basic and advanced law enforcement training curriculum in the topical area(s) for which you are applying.
 None of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, ALL of the information provided on this application is true, accurate, and complete, and that this application for employment is made in good faith. I understand that a false statement on any part of this application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that I may be punished by fine or imprisonment for falsification of my employment application (18 USC 1001). I understand that information I give may be investigated as allowed by law or Executive order. Do you understand and agree to all the above?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙