Position Title
DATA ANALYTICS SPECIALIST
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
OH-12776116-AR-25-263-T5 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 6, 2025 to Thursday, August 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Area of Consideration
1. Are you a current Ohio Army National Guard Title 5 federal employee within the USPFO Data Center?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you possess experience, education or training which provided a general knowledge of principles of organization, management, and administration; compiling reports, letters, memoranda, etc., and required person-to-person contacts to convey information; progressively responsible experience which demonstrates the ability to provide technical guidance and assistance in the type of work or in comparable work of the position to be filled; experience using computer and automation systems?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you possess 1 year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-11)? Such experience includes experience, education or training in program or managerial experience in a type of work or a combination of functions directly related to the position to be filled or in comparable work or functions; experience developing and recommending policy; organizing and carrying out specific programs, evaluating and recommending changes in methods of operations; experience in supervisory, staff or technical work which included study, analysis or evaluation leading to the development or improvement of managerial or administrative policies, practices and procedures; and experience preparing written communications and oral presentations.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
3. Provides technical advice on all aspects of data analytics. Responsible for administering and coordinating a complex data analytics portfolio including Army and Air National Guard and highly technical special projects. Uses knowledge of innovative business intelligence, to create prepare, design, test, validate and deploy superior quality, compelling insightful and timely delivered data visualization solutions from various sources, which are automated and sustainable. Research, design, develop and manage the content, and features data analytic applications. Uses data analytic and business intelligent tools to develop custom workflows, other applications and to process numerous additional data analytics and management tasks. Communicates and coordinates with content managers to ensure content conforms to Section 508, DoD, DFAS Site Office standards and policy, analytical visualizations, and content best practices.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
4. Utilizes expertise in interpreting, developing, and applying appropriate data to generate usable products that enable leaders to make informed decisions about the enterprise related to business processes, management, and efficiencies. Conducts studies, identifies trends, risks, and themes based on the data and information. Applies scientific and statistical standards to evaluate data to develop high-priority analyses and metrics. Supports larger workforce management initiatives by collecting and consolidating corresponding data to develop, prepare, and update comprehensive reports, charts, graphics, and presentations to illustrate findings.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected