Position Title
Regional Marketing and Communications Manager-Recruitment or Relocation bonus up to 25,000.00
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12813134 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, October 7, 2025 to Tuesday, October 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
1.
How many years of specialized experience with the full range of marketing responsibilities for a business, community, or industrial program (such as, crafting compelling messages;  building relationships with stakeholders; developing and executing comprehensive marketing and communication plans; executing digital and traditional marketing strategies, including social media, web development, and various platforms; or managing and negotiating commercial sponsorship agreements to include identifying potential sponsors, developing promotional packages and pricing, executing contractual obligations, overseeing sponsor event logistics, and maintaining communication to ensure sponsors receive their promised benefits and value) do you have? (Must be documented on your resume to get credit.)
 10 or more years of specialized experience
 5 or more years of specialized experience
 Less than 5 years of specialized experience


2.
What best describes your marketing experience background?
 I have marketing experience obtained within the CNIC Fleet and Family Readiness Program
 I have marketing experience obtained within another military Quality of Life Program, but not CNIC
 I have marketing experience obtained outside of military Quality of Life Programs
 I do not have marketing experience


3.
How many years of experience do you have performing the full range of supervisory duties for a marketing team?
 I have 5+ years’ experience
 I have 3 to 5 years’ experience
 I have 1 to 3 years’ experience
 I have less than 1 year experience
 I have no experience


4.
What size staff have you performed the full range of supervisory duties for?

 A staff of 20+ employees
 A staff of 15 to 19 employees
 A staff of 10 to 14 employees
 A staff of 5 to 9 employees
 A staff of less than 5
 I have not supervised before


5.
What is your education level? (Must submit transcripts and certification to receive full credit.)
 Master of Business Administration (MBA) with a marketing or communications concentration , and specialized certifications in areas such has digital marketing, content marketing, or strategic communication can further enhance your qualifications.
 Master of Business Administration (MBA) with a marketing or communications concentration ( with no specialized certifications)
 Bachelor’s degree in marketing, communications, public relations, journalism, or a related business field.
 Combination of education and experience.
 No education or certification.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙