Position Title
Addiction Therapist (Licensed Master's)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-12777265-25-JH Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 18, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Addiction Therapist (Masters) position with VA Capitol Health Care Network. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and/or education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.
Addiction Therapist (Masters). The LMAT level is designated for AT's who possess a master's degree and hold a state, territory, commonwealth or the District of Columbia's highest-level recognition for independent practice (i.e., license or certification) in the field of Alcohol and Drug Treatment. An individual in an AT or LMAT position must hold a state's highest level of recognition for the specified level/position being filled in the field of Alcohol and Drug Treatment. The required license and certification must be full, current and unrestricted.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. English Language Proficiency: LMAT candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7403(f). 

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Education: Hold a master's degree or higher in drug and alcohol studies or related behavioral health field from an accredited college or university. If you are using education or training to qualify for this position, you MUST upload/submit supporting documentation (i.e., transcripts, certificate of completion of training). Failure to do so will make you ineligible for consideration.

Do you meet the above requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2a. Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your master’s or doctoral degree.
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree:
Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. Licensure: An individual in an AT or LMAT position must hold a state's highest level of recognition for the specified level/position being filled in the field of Alcohol and Drug Treatment. The required license and certification must be full, current, and unrestricted.
Exception. The Secretary or designee may waive the licensure requirement for selectees who are otherwise qualified, pending state acceptance of completion of state prerequisites at the master's level. Licensures can be waived for three years from the date of employment. This exception is allowed on the condition that non-licensed LMATs appointed on this basis provide care only under the clinical supervision of an LMAT from the designated assignments to provide clinical supervision. Non-licensed LMAT applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements may be appointed as LMATs under the authority of 38 U.S.C.§ 7401(3). This exception applies only at the GS-09 entry grade level and individuals may not be promoted/converted until they obtain the required license. For grades/assignments at or above the full performance level, candidates must be licensed at the master's level.
Failure to Obtain Licensure. Prior to the time of appointment, HR Office staff will provide uncertified or unlicensed LMATs, the written requirement to obtain licensure, the date by which the license must be acquired and the consequences for not becoming licensed by the deadline. In all cases, LMATs must actively pursue meeting requirements for licensure starting from the date of their appointment. If LMATs fail to obtain licensure during this time period, their employment may be terminated.
Loss of License. In collaboration with HR Office staff, management officials must immediately relieve employees of the duties and responsibilities associated with the occupation who fail to maintain the required licensure or certification, which may also result in separation from employment.
Do you meet the above requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3a. Please provide your Licensure information.
Name on License:
Issuing state or territory:
Complete license number:
Expiration date:
GS-9 Assignment: Employees at this grade level serve in an entry-level developmental LMAT positions. At the entry-level, close clinical supervision is provided by higher-level LMATs. Duties may include but are not limited to counseling and providing psychoeducation, including EBT for individuals, groups, families and couples. Services are offered by LMATs either individually or as co-leader. LMATs assist in the caseload management of all patients in the program. LMATs assist in developing treatment plans (reviews and updates) and contribute to team decisions, 12 including the necessary determination of readiness for discharge. LMATs, at this level, assist in monitoring medication compliance as appropriate to assigned programs. They help maintain compliance with VA standards of care, accreditation bodies such as the Joint Commission, Commission on Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities, and other compliance agencies as appropriate to assigned programs and best practices of care (i.e., Opioid Treatment Program, Drug Enforcement Agency, Center for Substance Abuse Treatment and Substance Abuse Mental Health Service Administration. They conduct intake and needs assessments of Veterans with their significant others, extended family and others in the psychosocial network and support systems under supervision. LMATs ascertain the employment history and difficulties encountered in employment through assessment for vocational services planning to assist Veterans in meeting their vocational goals. LMATs use their knowledge of community-based resources to assist with recovery, including housing support. They review outside records as they become available and prepare correspondence related to the patient's rehabilitation, such as letters for courts, letters for an employer and other agencies upon the request of the patient. Under close supervision, LMATs may provide crisis intervention to patients in psychological distress. LMATs develop and maintain appropriate communication, rapport and positive working relationship with various institutions, organizations and service providers.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. GS-9 Education, License and Experience. The GS-09 grade level is the entry level for LMATs who have 
Less than one year of experience post licensure; OR. 
LMATs at the master's level who are graduates not yet licensed at the independent practice (Journey) level. Unlicensed LMATs at the GS-09 grade level must have completed the required education listed in Question 2 above and are working toward obtaining a full, current, and unrestricted license in a jurisdiction for independent practice in the field of Alcohol and Drug Treatment.
Do you meet this required experience and licensure to qualify for the Addiction Therapist (Master's) position NOTE: Applicants must demonstrate above requirements in their application and supporting documents.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. GS- 9 Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs). In addition to the basic requirements, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs.

(a) Knowledge of coexisting medical or other mental health disorders and the interrelationship of SUDs.
(b) Knowledge of basic recovery programs and resources.
(c) Skill in providing individual and group therapy, including using certain SUD Evidenced-Based Therapy (EBTs).
(d) Skill in developing and maintaining effective working or therapeutic relationships with multidisciplinary staff, Veterans and their families, and community resources to ensure appropriate referrals.
(e) Ability to complete the assessment of substance use disorders, treatment/recovery planning and continuing care planning.
(f) Ability to identify patients who are in psychological distress consistent with VA national policy and within scope of certification and secure appropriate interventions.

Do you meet the above requirements and the knowledge, skills, and abilities for the GS-9 grade level?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Addiction Therapist (Licensed Master's) GS-11 Qualification Requirements

Assignment. This assignment is the full performance level, for LMATs. At the full performance level LMATs independently provide addiction screening/assessments, orientation/education, treatment planning and counseling in person or via telehealth. They analyze problems and interpret and adapt guidelines such as policies, regulations, precedents, etc. for application to specific problems and recommend changes. LMATs provide evidenced-based practices in programming and recovery plan development. They provide psychoeducation for individuals, groups, families and couples either as leaders or co-leader. LMATs administer crisis intervention to patients in psychological distress handling emergencies within the scope of practice. They perform clinical supervision and oversight of patient care. They handle the coordination of treatment, and management of acute and chronic substance use and mental health issues. LMATs manage a caseload of patients with complex addictions, and mental and related physical problems. LMATs involve participants and their identified support systems in the treatment via education, treatment and planning. They develop a diagnostic evaluation/summary of the client's substance abuse and coexisting conditions. LMATs utilize assessment and diagnostic evaluations to develop an individualized treatment plan; and incorporate assessments and psychological testing results from physical exams and urine toxicology data for use by a multidisciplinary treatment team to develop a treatment plan. They make recommendations to the treatment team regarding readiness for discharge. LMATs are part of the team that formulates discharge plans and arranges referrals to community agencies and organizations. They ascertain the employment history to include employment difficulties; and conduct an assessment for vocational services planning and housing support and provide community-based resources that assist with recovery. LMATs collaborate with other disciplines to compile data to ensure quality patient care and compliance with Joint Commission Standards and ensure current information is available
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
6. GS-11 Education, License and Experience: In order to qualify for the GS-11 Addiction Therapist; you must meet the following: 
Experience. One year of creditable experience comparable to the next lower grade. Experience at the GS-9 level includes: 
Counseling and providing psychoeducation, including EBT for individuals, groups, families and couples. Services are offered by LMATs either individually or as co-leader. LMATs assist in the caseload management of all patients in the program. Assist in developing treatment plans (reviews and updates) and contribute to team decisions, including the necessary determination of readiness for discharge. LMATs, at this level, assist in monitoring medication compliance as appropriate to assigned programs. They help maintain compliance with VA standards of care, accreditation bodies such as the Joint Commission, Commission on Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities, and other compliance agencies as appropriate to assigned programs and best practices of care (i.e., Opioid Treatment Program, Drug Enforcement Agency, Center for Substance Abuse Treatment and Substance Abuse Mental Health Service Administration. They conduct intake and needs assessments of Veterans with their significant others, extended family and others in the psychosocial network and support systems under supervision. LMATs ascertain the employment history and difficulties encountered in employment through assessment for vocational services planning to assist Veterans in meeting their vocational goals. LMATs use their knowledge of community-based resources to assist with recovery, including housing support. They review outside records as they become available and prepare correspondence related to the patient's rehabilitation, such as letters for courts, letters for an employer and other agencies upon the request of the patient. Under close supervision, LMATs may provide crisis intervention to patients in psychological distress. LMATs develop and maintain appropriate communication, rapport and positive working relationship with various institutions, organizations and service providers.
Licensure. Candidates must possess a full, current and unrestricted license in a State for independent practice in the field of Alcohol and Drug Treatment. 

Do you meet this required experience and licensure to qualify for the Addiction Therapist (Master's)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. GS-11 Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs). In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Skill to independently complete assessments of substance use disorders, treatment planning and continued care planning.
Skill to apply the principles, concepts and methods of counseling and therapies used in the treatment of individuals with SUDs.
Skill to collaborate and consult on medical or other psychiatric disorders as interrelated to SUDs.
Ability to apply various community-based recovery programs and resources in a treatment plan.
Do you meet this required KSA to qualify for the Addiction Therapist (Master's) position? 

Note: Applicants must demonstrate above requirements in their application and supporting documentation. 
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected