Position Title
Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSU-12748000-25-ML Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, June 11, 2025 to Wednesday, June 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist GS-0647-5/6/7/8 position with the Veterans Health Administration. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.
Basic requirements
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. English Language Proficiency: Per VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Chapter 3, Section A, Paragraph 3j: No person will be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C., chapter 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA who is not proficient in written and spoken English.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Certification: All applicants must be certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (ARRT) (R). Advanced ARRT certification is required for assignments that include computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or Mammography (M) duties performed independently, as applicable. Advanced certification indicates that the incumbent can operate independently and has demonstrated specific clinical competency in the appropriate specialty and taken and passed the designated examination. In modalities that require advanced certification, to support their continued development, technologists who do not possess an advanced certification may be provided on the job training with oversight from a certified radiologic technologist.

Note: Non-certified DRTs who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for ARRT (R) certification may be given a temporary appointment as a graduate DRT that provides care under the supervision of a certified DRT at or above the full performance level. This exception only applies at the GS-5 entry level. For grade levels above the entry level, the candidate must be certified.

Please select the appropriate answer below.
 A. I possess certification in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology (ARRT) (R).
 B. I possess advanced ARRT certification required for Computed Tomography (CT) and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI).
 C. I do not possess certification as identified above, and understand I may only be considered for a GS-5, temporary appointment.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. Education: Completion of a full-time training course of at least 24 months in duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from other accrediting agencies as recognized by the Department of Education (DOE).

Do you meet the education requirements as described above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Grade specific requirements
4. GS-6 Experience or Education: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, you must also meet one of the following experience or educational requirements below.
Experience: Have at least 1 year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, GS 5. Experience at the GS 5 includes operating and monitoring commonly used equipment performing routine procedures under general supervision. The technician functions somewhat independently in carrying out these standardized procedures of limited complexity. Deviations from regular procedures, unanticipated problems, and unfamiliar situations are referred to the supervisor for a decision or help. Some assignments at this level also include developmental duties involving more complex procedures designed to prepare the technician for promotion to higher grades in a functional area. Such duties are performed under closer supervision.
or
Education: The successful completion of one full academic year of graduate education leading to a degree in radiography or other directly related field to diagnostic radiology/imaging (transcript required).
Do you meet the experience or education requirements as described above?
 A. Yes, I have at least 1 (one) year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, GS-5, (as described above).
 B. Yes, I have successfully completed one full academic year of graduate education leading to a degree in radiography or other directly related field to diagnostic radiology/imaging.
 C. No, I do not meet the experience or education requirement for this grade level.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5.

GS-6 Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: At this level, candidates must also demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):

Knowledge of basic technique standards for minimum radiographic exposure;
Knowledge of anatomy and positioning;
Knowledge of all patient safety procedures;
Knowledge of radiographic producing equipment; and
Ability to learn basic computer functions.

Do you meet the KSAs as described above?

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. GS-7 Experience or Education: To qualify at the GS 7 level, in addition to meeting the basic requirements, you must also have one of the following experience or educational requirements below:
Experience: Posses at least one (1) year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, GS-6 that demonstrates the clinical competencies described at that level. Experience includes DRTs performing examinations which are routine and standardized in nature. They explain exams to patients in terms they can understand as well as potential hazards. They also must troubleshoot equipment used for diagnostic radiology and exercise extreme caution in the handling and safeguarding of all radiation producing equipment. DRTs must report major equipment malfunctions within a timely manner to service representatives, and assist higher graded technicians in performing more complicated examinations.
OR
Education: (transcript required)
The successful completion of one full academic year of graduate education leading to a degree in radiography or other directly related field to diagnostic radiology/imaging; OR
successful completion of an advanced registry program, with certification, in addition to a 4-year baccalaureate degree program in radiography OR
other directly related field to diagnostic radiology/imaging. Education may relate to the duties of a specific position or to the occupation but must be appropriate for the position being filled.
Do you meet the experience or education requirements as described above?
 A. Yes, I have at least 1 (one) year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, GS-6, (as described above).
 B. Yes, I have successfully completed one full academic year of graduate education leading to a degree in radiography or other directly related field to diagnostic radiology/imaging.
 C. Yes, I have successfully completed an advanced registry program, with certification, in addition to a 4-year baccalaureate degree program in radiography or other directly related field to diagnostic radiology/imaging. Education may relate to the duties of a specific position or to the occupation but must be appropriate for the position being filled.
 D. No, I do not meet the experience or education requirement for this grade level.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
7. GS-7 Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. At this level, candidates must also demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):
Knowledge of the technical adequacy of the digital image, including the ability to adjust the image quality in the digital system;
Knowledge of different contrast material required for the requested study;
Knowledge of radiation protection standards, minimum radiographic exposure techniques, appropriate beam limitation to anatomical area, and employing lead shielding when performing standard radiographic and fluoroscopic procedures;
Knowledge of computed radiography, CR readers and Digital Imaging systems;
Knowledge of PACS and basic computer skills.
Do you meet the KSAs as described above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. GS-8 Experience: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, candidates at this level must have one year of experience equivalent to the GS-7 level, performing a substantially full range of duties but receiving guidance and direction regarding unfamiliar or unusual situations for more complex patient issues; and may be qualified to provide services in specialized areas of radiologic technology and/or general radiologic technology services.

Do you meet the experience requirement as described above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. GS-8 Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. At this level, candidates must also demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):
Ability to check system for operation and assess acceptable performance based on established guidelines;
Knowledge of calibration parameters and the ability to make adjustments as needed;
Knowledge of patient's clinical record, diagnosis, and laboratory results;
Ability to monitor patient's physiologic changes during the procedure and keep the radiologist informed;
Skill in using tact, diplomacy, and courtesy in dealings with the customer base, patients, staff, family, visitors, and volunteers; and
Knowledge of anatomy and physiology, and cross-sectional anatomy, recognizing unusual images, and determining proper positioning to best demonstrate areas of interest.
Do you meet the knowledge, skills, and abilities as described above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

CERTIFICATION AND TRANSCRIPTS- Please provide a copy of official transcripts and certification to demonstrate you meet the basic requirements of the position posted. For your transcripts, be sure your name, name of the school attended, dates attended, classes taken with grades listed and credits awarded, name of degree conferred, (if applicable) is stated on the transcript.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected