Position Title
Power Plant Senior Electrician
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERG2612821155DDHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 23, 2025 to Thursday, November 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Power Plant Senior Electrician, WB-2810-00 with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Power Plant Senior Electrician, WB-2810-00 duties without more than normal supervision.

 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex inspections, diagnostic testing, preventative maintenance, installation and repairs on electrical and electronic equipment, and facilities including electrical and electronic features of structures, and mechanical equipment at multi-purpose hydroelectric dam, hydroelectric power generating plant, spillway, intake structure, switchyard or industrial facility. I am skilled in troubleshooting to detect and to resolve performance problems operational malfunctions and problems. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of preventative maintenance, testing and repairs on electrical and electronic equipment, and facilities including electrical and electronic features of structures, and mechanical equipment at multi-purpose hydroelectric dam, hydroelectric power generating plant, spillway, intake structure, switchyard or industrial facility. I am skilled in testing and repairs functions. I work on my own initiative under general supervision and subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common preventative maintenance, testing and repairs on electrical and electronic equipment at multi-purpose hydroelectric dam, hydroelectric power generating plant, spillway, intake structure, switchyard or industrial facility. I can perform testing to check my repairs. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple preventative maintenance on electrical or electronic equipment at industrial facility. I have received training on electrical/electronic theory and usage of basic hand tools.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙