Position Title
Fitness Specialist
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12811295 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, October 6, 2025 to Wednesday, October 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 50 pounds.
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in working for the Fitness Center in Navy Region Northwest. Please answer the following questions as they best relate to your professional experience. All transcripts, diplomas, and/or certifications must be included in the application to ensure applicants meet the minimum qualifications of this position. Failure to include those will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Please select the option as it best relates to your length of experience in providing personal and group training.
 I have three or more years of experience in providing personal and group training.
 I have two to three years of experience in providing personal and group training.
 I have more than one year of experience in providing personal and group training.
 I have less than one year of experience in providing personal and group training.
 I do not have experience in providing personal and group training.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
This position requires its employees to communicate with active-duty military, their families, and other patrons aboard the instillations. Are you able to communicate with patrons clearly and kindly with abilities to speak in public forums to both small and large groups of people as well as one-on-one interactions?
 Yes
 No


3.
Please select the option that best describes your educational background.
 I have a bachelor's degree in Exercise Physiology, Exercise Science, Sports Medicine, or a Health-related field.
 I have a high school diploma or equivalent AND at least two years of experience within the health/fitness field.
 I have a high school diploma or equivalent, but DO NOT at least two years of experience within the health/fitness field.
 I do not have a high school diploma.


4.
Please select all of the current certifications you currently possess. Copies of your transcripts and certifications must be included in your application in order to be considered for this position.
 A. Personal Training
 B. Group exercise instructor
 C. Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR)
 D. Automated External Defibrillator (AED)
 E. First Aid


5.
This position requires for its employees to have or obtain and maintain certification from The American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM) or The American Council on Exercise (ACE). Instructional materiels to prepare will be provided by Fleet & Family Readiness Porgram to assist in meeting this requirement for continued employment. Please select the option that best relates to your application:
 I have a current certification with ACSM or ACE and am willing to maintain my certification throughout employment if selected.
 I do not have a current certificate through ACSM or ACE but am willing to obtain and maintain a certification within six months of employment.
 I do not have a current certificate through ACSM or ACE not willing to obtain and maintain a certification within six months of employment.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙