Position Title
Addiction Therapist (Licensed Master's)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSZ-12758033-25-BP Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, July 11, 2025 to Monday, July 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Addiction Therapist (Licensed Master's) (LMAT) position with the VA. Select the appropriate answer to the following questions based on your level of education and experience that demonstrates you meet the basic requirements for this position. The following questions will address basic eligibility requirements for the LMAT position. Please select "Yes" or "No" to the following question(s).
1. Applicants must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with VA Handbook 5005, part II, chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3j. Do you meet this requirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you have a master's degree or higher in drug and alcohol studies or a related behavioral health field from an accredited college or university? TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your bachelor's degree.

Name of Institution
City and State
Level of Education (diploma, degree, etc.)
Month and Year conferred

4. Licensure: Do you have a full, current and unrestricted license in a jurisdiction for independent practice in the field of Alcohol and Drug Treatment?

The licensure requirement may be waived for selectees who are otherwise qualified, pending state acceptance of completion of state prerequisites at the master's level. Licensures can be waived for three years from the date of employment. This exception is allowed on the condition that non-licensed LMATs appointed on this basis provide care only under the clinical supervision of an LMAT from the designated assignments to provide clinical supervision. Non-licensed LMAT applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements may be appointed as LMATs under the authority of 38 U.S.C.? 7401(3). This exception applies only at the GS-09 entry grade level and individuals may not be promoted/converted until they obtain the required license.
 A. Yes
 B. No, requesting temporary appointment
 C. No
5. Provide the following information regarding your license.

Name on License
Issuing state or territory
Complete license number
Expiration date

In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met when determining the grade of candidates.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
6. Grade Requirement GS-9:
There are no additional education or experience requirements above basic eligibility requirements for the GS-9 grade. Do you meet the basic requirements as listed in questions 1 - 5?

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. GS-9 Knowledge, Skills and Abilities: In addition to the basic requirements, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs.
(a) Knowledge of coexisting medical or other mental health disorders and the interrelationship of SUDs.
(b) Knowledge of basic recovery programs and resources.
(c) Skill in providing individual and group therapy, including using certain SUD Evidenced-Based Therapy (EBTs).
(d) Skill in developing and maintaining effective working or therapeutic relationships with multidisciplinary staff, Veterans and their families, and community resources to ensure appropriate referrals.
(e) Ability to complete the assessment of substance use disorders, treatment/recovery planning and continuing care planning.
(f) Ability to identify patients who are in psychological distress consistent with VA national policy and within scope of certification and secure appropriate interventions.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Grade Requirement GS-11:
Do you possess at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level GS-9?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. GS-11 Knowledge, Skills and Abilities: In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
(a) Skill to independently complete assessments of substance use disorders, treatment planning and continued care planning.
(b) Skill to apply the principles, concepts and methods of counseling and therapies used in the treatment of individuals with SUDs.
(c) Skill to collaborate and consult on medical or other psychiatric disorders as interrelated to SUDs.
(d) Ability to apply various community-based recovery programs and resources in a treatment plan.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Employer name and complete address; Job title; Duties (be as detailed as possible); Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008); Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week); and Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.
Transcript Reminder - Due to the positive education requirement unofficial transcripts or an appropriate course listing must be submitted with your application. Applications will not be considered without appropriate transcripts.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected