Position Title
ACCOUNTANT
Agency
Defense Finance and Accounting Service
Announcement Number
DFAS-DHA-ML-12786681-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 21, 2025 to Monday, September 1, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 
NOTE 1:  If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 
NOTE 2:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 
NOTE 1:  If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 
NOTE 2:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. 
NOTE 1:  If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade. 
NOTE 2:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal appropriated or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 
NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 
NOTE 2:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Indianapolis, IN
 B. Limestone, ME
 C. Rome, NY
 D. Cleveland, OH
 E. Whitehall, OH
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
5
7
9
11
3. Are you a retired Federal employee receiving an annuity from the Office of Personnel Management? NOTE: If you answered yes to this question, attach a copy of your retirement Standard Form 50 to your application.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former (within last five-years) Executive Branch political appointee; Schedule C excepted service appointee (confidential, policy or transitional role), or non-career or limited appointee in the Senior Executive Service (SES)?

Agencies must request OPM approval to appoint the following current or former (within five-years) Executive Branch political appointees to permanent competitive service, non-political excepted service, or career SES positions:
https://www.opm.gov/FAQs/QA.aspx?fid=023f2059-dff7-4307-89b4-c553c218af1d&pid=08248d29-d26e-44b6-9988-57655358d509
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. How did you find this job announcement? Help us better reach applicants in the future. Please choose all responses that apply.
 A. I saw the job posting through my school’s career service center/job board.
 B. I heard about the job posting through a student/club/professional organization.
 C. I searched the USAJOBS website.
 D. I attended a recruitment events (job fair).
 E. I attended an outreach session/presentation (separate from a formal recruitment event).
 F. I searched Handshake.
 G. I searched Symplicity.
 H. I searched Indeed or another job board.
 I. I received a USAJOBS saved search email.
 J. An agency employee told me about it.
 K. I saw it on social media.
6. This position requires regular on-site attendance at the designated DFAS location. As a condition of employment, selected applicants must be willing and able to report to the worksite on a regular basis, as determined by the agency's needs.
 A. I understand the above requirement and am able to report to the worksite on a regular basis according to the needs of the agency.
 B. I am NOT able and/or willing to report to the worksite. As a result, I understand I will no longer be considered for this position.
Assessment 1
Please accurately identify your level of training or experience when completing this questionnaire. Your responses will be evaluated and verified based on your submitted resume. Ensure that your resume accurately describes the level of education and/or experience claimed in the assessment questionnaire. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. By continuing in the application process, I acknowledge that my self-assessment questionnaire score may be reduced, and I may lose consideration for this position if the work experience described in my resume does not support my responses to the assessment questionnaire.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. This position is being filled under Direct-Hire Authority for Certain Personnel of the Department of Defense (DoD). DFAS has delegated authority by the Office of the Secretary of Defense to directly appoint qualified candidates possessing a finance, accounting, management, or actuarial science degree, or a related degree from an accredited college or university in a field of study, or equivalent experience, related to the functions of the position to be filled. Do you certify, to the best of your knowledge and belief, that you have the equivalent experience or related degree (or will have the equivalent experience or related degree within 3 months from the job post closing)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. To qualify for this position, you must meet one of the basic requirements described below. (You MUST submit copies of your proof of education unless you meet one of the exceptions as described in the vacancy announcement; failure to submit required documents by the close of the announcement may result in an Ineligible rating.)
 A. Completion of all requirements (or will have completed of requirements within 3 months from the job closing) for a bachelor's degree in accounting from an accredited college or university; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 semester hours may include up to 6 semester hours of credit in business law. (You MUST submit transcripts or proof of education to verify your claim.)
 B. A combination of education and experience: at least 4 years of accounting experience or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge AND 24 semester hours in accounting/auditing courses, which may include up to 6 semester hours of business law, OR a certificate as a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) or Certified Internal Auditor (CIA). (You MUST submit transcripts or proof of education to verify your claim and experience must be clearly expressed in your resume.)
 C. I do not meet any of the above requirements.
3. From the descriptions below, select the letter that corresponds to the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess and demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Accountant at the GS-5 grade level. Select only one letter for each item.
 A. I have successfully completed all of the requirements for a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university (or will have within 3 months from the job post closing). I have also completed 24 semester hours of accounting, business administration, or a related field. (You MUST submit transcripts or proof of education and any other applicable documentation to verify your claim.)
 B. A combination of education and experience: at least 4 years of accounting experience or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge AND 24 semester hours in accounting/auditing courses, which may include up to 6 hours of business law, OR a certificate as a Certified Public Accountant or Certified Internal Auditor. (You MUST submit transcripts or proof of education to verify your claim and experience must be clearly expressed in your resume.)
 C. I do not meet any of the above requirements.
4. From the descriptions below, select the letter that corresponds to the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess and demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Accountant at the GS-7 grade level. Select only one letter for each item.
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as validating, maintaining, or processing accounting data or transactions in accordance with policies, procedures, and regulations. (Experience must be clearly expressed in your resume.)
 B. I have successfully completed one full year of graduate level education (or will have completed within 3 months from the job post closing). One full year of graduate education is the number of hours the school determines to equal one year. If this information is unavailable, 18 semester hours will be used as the standard. (You MUST submit transcripts or proof of education to verify your claim.)
 C. I do not possess the full amounts of experience and education as are described in A and B above. However, I have a percentage of the education and experience which when combined totals 100% of the necessary education and experience to qualify for this position. (You MUST submit transcripts or proof of education to verify your claim and experience must be clearly expressed in your resume.)
 D. I have successfully completed all of the requirements for a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university (or will have within 3 months from the job post closing) and claim eligibility for superior academic achievement based on one of the following: a grade point average (GPA) of a 2.95 or higher on a 4.0 scale, class standing in the upper third of my graduating class or major subdivision, or membership in a national scholastic honor society. (You MUST submit transcripts or proof of education and any other applicable documentation to verify your claim.)
 E. I do not meet any of the above requirements.
5. From the descriptions below, select the letter that corresponds to the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess and demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Accountant at the GS-9 grade level. Select only one letter for each item.
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as utilizing established accounting standards to compile, analyze, and summarize accounting data resulting from day-to-day accounting operations, maintaining the integrity of financial accounts and, preparing financial statements and/or reports in accordance with policies, procedures, and regulations. (Experience must be clearly expressed in your resume.)
 B. I have successfully completed a Master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or L.L.B. or J.D. (or will have completed within 3 months from the job post closing) in a field of study that is directly related to the position being filled. To be creditable, education must have been obtained from an accredited college or university. (You MUST submit transcripts or proof of education to verify your claim.)
 C. I do not possess the full amounts of experience and education as are described in A and B above. However, I have a percentage of the education and experience which when combined totals 100% of the necessary education and experience to qualify for this position. (You MUST submit transcripts or proof of education to verify your claim and experience must be clearly expressed in your resume.)
 D. I do not meet any of the above requirements.
6. From the descriptions below, select the letter that corresponds to the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess and demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Accountant at the GS-11 grade level. Select only one letter for each item.
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as interpreting and applying of accounting principles, policies, and procedures; assisting in designing, implementing and assessing of internal accounting control processes; and ensuring the validity, accuracy, and integrity of accounting processes. (Experience must be clearly expressed in your resume.)
 B. I have 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree (or will have completed within 3 months from the job post closing) in a field of study that is directly related to the position being filled. (You MUST submit transcripts or proof of education to verify your claim.)
 C. I do not possess the full amounts of experience and education as are described in A and B above. However, I have a percentage of the education and experience which when combined totals 100% of the necessary education and experience to qualify for this position. (You MUST submit transcripts or proof of education to verify your claim and experience must be clearly expressed in your resume.)
 D. I do not meet any of the above requirements.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
7. Do you certify, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.)? Do you understand that the information provided may be investigated? Do you understand that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with your application may be grounds for not hiring you or for firing you after you begin work? Do you also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001)?

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected