Position Title
Interdisciplinary (Non Medical Clinical Counselor)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12817139 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 17, 2025 to Friday, October 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0101 - Social Science
 B. 0180 - Psychology
 C. 0185 - Social Work


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the specialized experience and/or education to qualify for the NAF Interdisciplinary (Non-Medical Clinical Counselor) position. Failure to meet the basic requirement(s) and specialized experience or failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Basic Requirements: 0180
Do you have a doctoral degree (Ph.D or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology AND 2 years of experience working in the field of child abuse and domestic abuse. NOTE: Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position.

 Yes
 No


2.
Basic Requirements: 0185
Do you have a master's degree in social work from a school accredited by the Council on Social Work Education AND 2 years of experience working in the field of child abuse and domestic abuse. NOTE: Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position.

 Yes
 No


3.
Basic Requirements: 0101
Which of the following education and/or experience do you have in order to meet the requirements for this position in the 0101 series AND 2 years of experience working in the field of child abuse and domestic abuse.  NOTE: Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position, if you are qualifying based on education.
 I have a bachelor's degree or higher in behavioral or social science; or related discipline as appropriate to the position, such as Marriage and Family Therapy; Mental Health Counseling; or completion of a degree from a program accredited by the Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Education Programs (CACREP) AND at least 2 years of direct work experience in the field of child abuse and domestic abuse.
 I have a combination of education and experience that provided knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field, including at least 2 years of direct work experience in the field of child abuse and domestic abuse.
 I have four years of appropriate experience that demonstrates acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field, including at least 2 years of direct work experience in the field of child abuse and domestic abuse.
 I have none of the above.


4.
Which of the following do you possess? Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position.

 Master's degree from a program accredited by the Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Education Programs or an equivalent degree.
 Master's degree from a program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Marriage and Family Therapy Education or an equivalent degree.
 Master's degree in Social Work from a graduate school of Social Work accredited by the Council on Social Work Education or an equivalent degree.
 Doctoral degree in clinical or counseling psychology from an American Psychological Association (APA) accredited university or professional school AND a 1-year APA accredited clinical internship.
 I do not have one of the degrees identified above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Do you have licensure/certification by a state or U.S. territory that provides legal authority to provide clinical services as an independent practitioner in the fields of Licensed Professional Counseling, Marriage and Family Therapy, Clinical Social Work, Clinical Psychology or Counseling Psychology AND 2 years, full-time clinical experience post independent licensure or certification? A current license must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position.

 Yes
 No


6.
Do you have at least 4 years' specialized experience in providing non-medical clinical counseling to individuals, couples, families, and/or groups on family dynamics, parent-child interactions, couples' communication, adjustment to commonly occurring personal and family issues/circumstances, adjustment to military life, and/or psycho-educational training programs?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙