Position Title
SUPERVISORY EDUCATION PROGRAM SPECIALIST (DIRECTOR)
Agency
Defense Human Resources Activity
Announcement Number
DHRADSSC-25-12797917-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 12, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a position with higher graded promotional potential than previously held?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. .

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and are applying a for a promotion?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).



 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and have held a position at or above the target grade for this position?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).


 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
are entitled to veterans preference?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes your highest-level of experience for the Supervisory Education Program Specialist, GS-1720-15 position. To be creditable, specialized experience must be at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. Applicants must meet eligibility requirements including time-in-grade (General Schedule (GS) positions only), time-after-competitive appointment, minimum qualifications, and any other regulatory requirements by the cut-off/closing date of the announcement. Read all the statements below completely before making your selection.

 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade-level (GS-14) in the federal service which is in or directly related to the line of work of the position. Creditable specialized experience includes: 1. Leading professionals and subject matter experts in performing policy development, oversight, management, and integration of programs. 2. Managing the development of organizational strategy in areas that impact daily operations and future activities, e.g. program development and execution, fiscal requirements, human resource requirements, and operational considerations. 3. Leading senior governance forums to build consensus with interagency partners in support of organizational initiatives. 4. Planning work to be accomplished by incumbents, implementing ways to eliminate or reduce significant bottlenecks, setting, and adjusting short- and long-term priorities, and preparing schedules for completion of work. (Experience must be reflected in resume).
 B. My experience is not reflected in the statements above.
2. From the description listed below, select the letter that best describes your level of education/experience.

 A. Degree: Including or supplemented by at least 24 semester hours in a field related to the work of the position to be filled, of which at least 9 semester hours must have been in education courses.
 B. Combination of education and experience: At least 24 semester hours in a field related to the work of the position to be filled, of which at least 9 semester hours must have been in education courses, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (The experience must reflect the level and kind described in C below).
 C. Four years of experience that demonstrated a thorough understanding of the principles and practices underlying the work of this series: This experience must have been of such character and diversity to demonstrate that the applicant possesses an understanding of the field comparable to that normally acquired through successful completion of a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university.
 D. At least one full academic year of professional teaching experience: This experience is defined as full and primary responsibility, under general supervision, for instruction of assigned students in an accredited school or institution. This includes responsibility for preparing and presenting lessons and for evaluating students' progress, including a determination of the students' success or failure according to established criteria. Serving in an assistant capacity to a professor without the authority to determine the students' success or failure to meet course requirements does not meet this criterion.
 E. I do not meet the education requirement.
3. Choose the response that best reflects your experience evaluating the effectiveness of current education programs.

 A. I evaluate the effectiveness of program return on investment and develop and recommend best practices for implementation of education programs and services.
 B. I complete evaluations and develop executive level reports, identifying metrics, trends and analysis for programs unrelated to education.
 C. I perform research assigned in support of the program manager.
 D. None of the above.
4. Please select the response that best describes your experience reviewing the expenditure of funds and determining if program adjustments are needed and reallocating resources accordingly to better meet agency needs and new priority requirements.

 A. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely without supervision, and I have trained others in the performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 B. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, often independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 C. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 D. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 E. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
5. I proactively work to expand partnerships with other government agencies and relevant stakeholders to promote agency mission.

 A. Yes, I possess this experience, and it is clearly outlined in my resume.
 B. No, I do not possess this experience.
6. From the following list of communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied. (Select all that apply)

 A. Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective.
 B. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments.
 C. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff.
 D. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations.
 E. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals.
 F. Organizes work, sets priorities, and determines resource requirements.
 G. Implements and/or utilizes strategic plans on a daily basis.
 H. None of the above
7. Please select the response that best describes your experience articulating, negotiating, persuading and implementing policies, procedures and processes required by changes in the political, legislative, economic or operating environments.
 A. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely without supervision, and I have trained others in the performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 B. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, often independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 C. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 D. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 E. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
8. I routinely and extensively interact with the following through meetings, conferences, briefings, speeches, presentations, and oversight meetings. (Select all that apply)
 A. SES, Flag and General Officers
 B. High level organizations (e.g. OSD, DoD Service Departments)
 C. Congress
 D. National Security Council
 E. Secretary of Defense
 F. Under Secretaries of Defense
 G. Combatant Commanders
 H. Academic Organizations
 I. Other government and non/government agencies
 J. None of the above (If selected, this should be your only response)
9. Please select the response that best describes your experience researching, coordinating, and preparing position papers, information papers, documents, and other correspondence for senior leadership?

 A. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 B. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in the performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 C. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 D. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 E. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
10. Please select the response that best describes your experience communicating with all levels of management presenting delicate positions on controversial or sensitive matters in a professional manner to support the mission.

 A. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in the performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 B. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 C. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 D. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 E. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job.
11. I have documented experience developing ideas in a logical sequence to make effective and convincing oral presentations to a wide range of audiences at the most senior levels.

 A. True
 B. False
12. Select the response that best describes your experience with various interpersonal communication techniques to prepare briefings, talking points, power point presentations to management and staff within the organization.

 A. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 B. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 C. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 D. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 E. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
13. Select the statement that best represents your experience articulating/negotiating complex/sensitive issues with officials that have diverse perspectives and differing views.

 A. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in the performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 B. I have observed this task but have not yet participated on a team performing this task.
 C. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 D. I have participated on a team performing this task but have not yet performed this duty independently on the job.
 E. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
14. Of the following duties, select all that you have utilized for the management of employees and programs? (Select all that apply)
 A. Direct staff through subordinate supervisors
 B. Assign and review work of subordinates
 C. Approve full range of personnel management actions
 D. Approve and implement organizational change proposals recommended by subordinate supervisors
 E. Develop long-range organizational plans and goals
 F. Provide management oversight and direction.
 G. Provide guidance for functional managers and subordinate supervisors to facilitate organizational effectiveness and efficiency.
 H. None of the above
15. Which of the following managerial functions do you have documented working experience? (Select all that apply)

 A. Effectuate Minor disciplinary measures
 B. Recommending action in serious cases
 C. Identifying developmental and training needs of employees
 D. Providing development and training
 E. Discover ways to improve production or increase the quality of work.
 F. Find ways to promote team building.
 G. None of the above
16. Please select the response that best describes your experience making selections for subordinate positions taking into consideration skills and qualifications, mission requirements, and EEO and diversity objectives?

 A. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 B. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee
 E. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
17. Please select all you have experience with in regard to the planning of work to be accomplished by subordinates? (Select all that apply)

 A. Set and adjust short term priorities
 B. Prepares schedules for completion of work
 C. Assign work based on priorities
 D. Consider difficulties of assignments with capabilities of employees.
 E. Evaluate work performance
 F. None of the above
18. Do you have demonstrated experience or training hearing and resolving complaints from employees?
 A. Yes
 B. No
19. From the list below, select the response that most closely represents your experience managing and administering higher education programs (VolEd or other higher education programs).

 A. I have extensive experience managing and overseeing multiple higher education programs, including developing new initiatives, ensuring program success through data analysis, stakeholder engagement, and clear communication to both internal and external partners.
 B. I have some experience supporting the management of higher education programs, assisting in program implementation, tracking performance metrics, and regularly communicating progress to stakeholders to ensure program goals are met.
 C. I have limited experience with higher education programs, mainly assisting with administrative duties, data collection, or preparing reports for senior leaders.
 D. I have no experience managing higher education programs.
20. I regularly collaborate with senior leaders in higher education institutions and other educational organizations to ensure programs meet the needs of students and achieve desired outcomes. I also effectively communicate program goals, status, and challenges to stakeholders.

 A. True
 B. False
21. Choose the response(s) that best reflects your experience in managing and supporting higher education programs (VolEd or other). (Select all that apply.)

 A. I have developed strategies to improve the accessibility and quality of higher education programs, clearly communicating those strategies to senior leadership and program stakeholders.
 B. I have collaborated with internal and external stakeholders to ensure higher education programs are aligned with academic and institutional goals, facilitating cross-functional teamwork.
 C. I have conducted evaluations and assessments to measure the effectiveness of higher education programs and shared those findings with appropriate stakeholders for program improvement.
 D. None of the above.
22. From the list below, select the response that most closely represents your experience working with academic records, including the management of transcripts, credit evaluations, or coordination with registrar offices to ensure academic credit is properly awarded for military training.

 A. I have extensive experience working with academic records, including collaborating with registrars to ensure that military training is accurately translated into college credit and reflected on transcripts or counseling service members on the credit application process of their recommended military credits.
 B. I have some experience working with academic records and transcripts, assisting with credit evaluations for military training or supporting the processing of military educational credits in collaboration with military community colleges, Joint Service Transcript, registrar offices, or academic staff.
 C. I have limited experience with academic records or transcripts, mostly providing administrative support in tracking military training credit or assisting with related tasks.
 D. I have no experience working with academic records, transcripts, or credit evaluations for military training.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected