Position Title
Supervisory Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-12794295-25-JR Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 5, 2025 to Monday, September 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist position with the Department of Veterans Affairs. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, please note that your experience and education are subject to verification through investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. This section addresses the basic qualifications for this vacancy announcement.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1.
ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY:Diagnostic Radiologic Technologists must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. ? 7403(f), and in accordance with VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Chapter 2, Section D, paragraph 5a.Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Certification:

All applicants must be certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (ARRT) (R). Advanced ARRT certification is required for assignments that include computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or Mammography (M) duties performed independently, as applicable. Advanced certification indicates that the incumbent can operate independently and has demonstrated specific clinical competency in the appropriate specialty and taken and passed the designated examination.

Are you certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (ARRT) (R)?
 A. Yes
 B. I am current, permanent Veterans Affairs employee and qualify based on grandfathering provision.
 C. No
2a. Please provide your license/certification information.
Name on License:
Issuing state or territory:
Complete license number:
Expiration date:
3. EDUCATION:

Completion of a full-time training course of at least 24 months in duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from [other accrediting agencies as recognized by the Department of Education (DOE).]

[NOTE: Assignment to the clinical program director requires meeting JRCERT minimum educational standards as noted in the assignment description.]
 A. Yes
 B. I am current, permanent Veterans Affairs employee and qualify based on grandfathering provision.
 C. No
3a. Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your education.
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree:
Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:
GRADE REQUIREMENTS:Creditable Experience 
Knowledge of Current Radiologic Technology Practice. To be creditable, experience must have demonstrated possession of the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics (also referred to as clinical competencies) associated with current radiologic technology practice. This may have been evidenced by the equivalent of one year of active practice, which is paid or nonpaid employment as a DRT as defined by ARRT.
Quality of Experience. Experience is only creditable if it was earned after completion of the basic certification requirements identified above. Experience as a graduate DRT is creditable provided the candidate functioned as a DRT and subsequently passed the certification examination.
Part-Time Experience. Part-time experience as a DRT is creditable according to its relationship to the full-time workweek. For example, a DRT would receive one week of full-time credit for each two weeks of half-time work.

GRADE DETERMINATIONS:

In addition to the basic requirements for appointment, the following criteria must be used when determining the appropriate grade assignment of candidates.

4. Supervisory Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist, GS-12

Experience. 
At least one year of the following types of experience comparable to the next lower grade level that fully meets the KSAs at that level. Supervisory Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist. Assignment to this grade level is restricted to those serving as the chief radiologic technologist at medical facilities with comprehensive and complex radiographic and imaging programs. Employees in these assignments plan and direct the radiologic technology program at active, affiliated medical centers with critical care and emergent inpatient services, and have full supervisory responsibility for a large staff of subordinate personnel, including GS-10 DRTs, at least one subordinate team leader or supervisor at the next lower grade level, and may include clerical or administrative support staff. At this level, the radiologic technology program typically includes the full variety of comprehensive and complex modalities. The candidate must demonstrate the following technical KSAs and demonstrate the potential to acquire the assignment-specific KSAs designated by an asterisk (*):
*Ability to perform the full range of supervisory duties, including responsibility for assignment of work performed; performance evaluations; recommendations for appointments, awards, advancements, and, when appropriate, disciplinary actions; and identification of continuing education and training needs.
Ability to serve as a consultant to other facility personnel in evaluating and planning radiologic technology services for the most complex cases.
*Ability to participate in research studies and/or as a consultant to others conducting research.
*Ability to consult with staff and resident physicians through patient presentation, attending ward rounds, and specialty clinics and/or conferences, etc.
*Ability to assess, plan, and evaluate the delivery of radiologic technology services at the facility.
Please select the response that best describes your experience and knowledge skills and abilities.
 A. I possess this experience and knowledge, skills and abilities and have them demonstrated in my resume.
 B. I do not possess this experience and/or the knowledge, skills and abilities.
FEDERAL EMPLOYEE:
SF-50 Reminder: Most recent SF-50 if you are a current or former Federal employee. Award SF-50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted.
RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: * Job Title and a summary of duties. (be as detailed as possible) * Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) * Full-time or part-time status (MUST include hours worked per week if part-time). * Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. * Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.
Transcript Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education, or a combination of education and experience, you must submit a copy of your transcripts (official or unofficial) with your application.
Certification/Licensure Reminder - You must submit a copy of your certification/licensure for this above full performance level position. 

The following is a Certification of Understanding. Please note, if you do not answer this question, it will result in not being considered for this position.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected