Position Title
Legal Administrative Specialist (Litigation Support)
Agency
Executive Office for U.S. Attorneys and the Office of the U.S. Attorneys
Announcement Number
25-NM-12771273-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 24, 2025 to Thursday, August 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
7
9
11
2. Would you accept a term appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Justice (DOJ). Your response to this assessment questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making screening decisions. This is a DOJ job application system. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this application. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration.
For the following question, please select the response that best describes your experience/education. You may select only one response for each question. If you feel that your experience/education exceeds all of the descriptions for a particular question, choose the description that is the closest level to the experience/education that you possess. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.
1. From the descriptions below, select the ONE response that BEST describes the specialized experience that demonstrates your ability to perform as a Legal Administrative Specialist (Litigation Support) at the GS-07 grade level.

 A. I have at least one full year of general experience equivalent to the GS-05 level in Federal service. Specialized experience include the following: assisting with organizing case information, preparing discovery productions, including scanning and coding documents and creating CDs; assisting attorneys in preparing for court such as preparing exhibits, compiling trial notebooks and compiling witness and exhibit lists; verifying citations; assisting in the use of technology to organize digital evidence; preparing, drafting and editing a variety of legal and trial-related documents.
 B. I possess one of the following types of education in a related field: one full year of graduate level education in related field (e.g. Information Technology, Computer Science, Law, Criminal Justice,) leading to a Master's degree or higher; OR a completed Bachelor's Degree with Superior Academic Achievement as defined by the Office of Personnel Management's Qualification Standards (see announcement for details). Education was obtained in an accredited college or university and demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to perform the duties of the position.
 C. I have a combination of specialized experience as described in A and education as described in B which when combined equal 100% of the requirements. (Only graduate education in excess of one full year is creditable.)
 D. I do not have the education or experience as described above.
2. Identify the specific experience from your resume or cover letter that validates your response. Also list the name and contact information of someone who can verify your response.

3. From the descriptions below, select the ONE response that BEST describes the specialized experience that demonstrates your ability to perform as a Legal Administrative Specialist (Litigation Support) at the GS-09 grade level.

 A. I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level in the Federal Service. Specialized experience is defined as performing routine litigation support assignments such as assisting with organizing case information (i.e., scanning and creating CDs); assisting attorneys in preparing for court such as preparing exhibits, compiling trial notebooks, compiling witness and exhibit lists and preparing computerized trial presentations and exhibits; verifying citations; conducting research, analysis and evaluation of data in response to requests; using automated legal research tools such as Westlaw, Lexis, as well as public information databases to perform basic research of case-specific legal matters; preparing a variety of legal documents; and managing discovery.
 B. I have one of the following types of education in a related field (e.g., Information Technology, Computer Science, Law, Criminal Justice): Master's or equivalent graduate degree; OR 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree; or LL.B. or J.D., if related. Education at the graduate level must be in an accredited college or university and must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the duties of the position.
 C. I have a combination of specialized experience as described in A and education as described in B which when combined equal 100% of the requirements. (Only graduate education in excess of one full year is creditable.)
 D. I do not have the education or experience as described above.
4. Identify the specific experience from your resume or cover letter that validates your response. Also, list the name and contact information of someone who can verify your response.

5. From the descriptions below, select the ONE response that BEST describes the specialized experience that demonstrates your ability to perform as a Legal Administrative Specialist (Litigation Support) at the GS-11 grade level.

 A. I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level in Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as performing the following types of duties: participating in trial preparation and presentations; working with attorneys and legal support staff to recommend effective strategy to meet litigation needs; identifying and utilizing software packages such as databases spreadsheets and word processing applications to present evidence; managing a variety of computer hardware for trial use; customizing databases and programs to meet individual user needs; preparing demonstrative exhibits required for litigation; organizing and managing case specific discovery.
 B. I possess one of the following types of education in a related field (e.g. Information Technology, Computer Science, Criminal Justice, Law): Ph.D., or equivalent doctoral degree in a related field; OR 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree; OR LL.M., if related. Education must be in an accredited college or university and must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the duties of the position.
 C. I have a combination of specialized experience as described in A and education as described in B which when combined equal 100% of the requirements. (Only graduate level education in excess of the first two years can be used in this calculation.)
 D. I do not have the education or experience as described above.
6. Identify the specific experience from your resume or cover letter that validates your response. Also, list the name and contact information of someone who can verify your response.

7. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this program.

I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

I understand a comprehensive background investigation, including a check of my credit history and a pre-employment drug screening, is required for this position.

 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected