Position Title
AIRCRAFT SURVIVAL FLIGHT EQUIPMENT REPAIRER SUPERVISOR
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
IN-12753626-AF-25-052 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, June 27, 2025 to Sunday, July 27, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
GUARD INFORMATION
1. Prior to appointment, individuals will undergo a background check to validate suitability for employment with the federal government as permitted by law. Items checked include, but are not limited to all criminal history record information, employment history, education and fiscal accountability/responsibility. IAW 5 CFR 302.203, the following, among others, may be included as disqualifying reasons: (1) Dismissal from employment for delinquency or misconduct; (2) Criminal, infamous, dishonest, immoral, or notoriously disgraceful conduct; (3) Intentional false statement or deception or fraud in examination or appointment; (4) Habitual use of intoxicating beverages to excess; (5) Reasonable doubt as to the loyalty of the person involved to the Government of the United States; (6) Any legal or other disqualification which makes the individual unfit for service; or (7) Lack of United States citizenship.
 A. I give my permission for the Indiana National Guard to conduct a background check on me.
 B. I do not give my permission for the Indiana National Guard to conduct a background check and no longer wish to be considered for this position.
2. Do you have any relatives (as defined below by 5 USC 3110) who are employed with the Indiana National Guard?

Per 5 USC 3110, A public official may not appoint, employ, promote, advance, or advocate for appointment, employment, promotion, or advancement, in or to a civilian position in the agency in which he is serving or over which he exercises jurisdiction or control any individual who is a relative of the public official. An individual may not be appointed, employed, promoted, or advanced in or to a civilian position in an agency if such appointment, employment, promotion, or advancement has been advocated by a public official, serving in or exercising jurisdiction or control over the agency, who is a relative of the individual. Relative is defined as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, or half sister.

Please list relatives names in narrative box below.
3. *PLEASE READ THIS CAREFULLY AS THE FOLLOWING HAS CHANGED
Indiana National Guard (INNG) Federal Technicians will wait 18 months after being selected for a new position before applying for another position within the INNG. If you meet the requirements listed below, you will need to submit a signed Exception to Policy (ETP) memorandum with your application to be considered for the position. If you have questions about applicability, send an email explaining your situation to the HRO Staffing inbox listed below.
If you are a Tenure 0 Temporary employee (your position has a not-to-exceed date), you do not need an ETP memo, you will select No below and proceed with your application.
Did you become a new employee through a USAJobs announcement within the last 18 months?
If yes, you will need an ETP memo. Follow the instructions below.
If no, continue reading.
Did you receive a promotion, reassignment, conversion (to tenure 1, 2, or 3), or a grade reduction through a USAJobs announcement within the last 18 months? This does not include receiving a temporary promotion.
If yes, you will need an ETP memo. Follow the instructions below.
If no, select No below and proceed with your application.
If you require an ETP memorandum, you can download the template here: https://armyeitaas.sharepoint-mil.us/sites/NGIN-J1HR/SitePages/Technician-Staffing.aspx
The memorandum will be written by you, the employee, and signed by your supervisory chain up to the Director level. Directors and Supervisors will submit the signed memorandum for final review to the HRO Staffing inbox: ng.in.inarng.mbx.hro-staffing-section@army.mil
The Human Resources Officer (HRO) is the final approval for all ETP waivers. If approved, the memorandum will be returned to you and then submitted with your application.
 A. Yes, this applies to me, and I have submitted my ETP memo signed by the HRO.
 B. No, this does not apply to me.
4. Are you currently within the military grades/ranks of E7 through E8?
 A. Yes, I am within the grades/ranks listed above.
 B. No, I am not within the grades/ranks listed above.
5. Are you currently an ON-BOARD Title 32 or Title 5 (Tenure 1, 2 or 3) technician with the Indiana Air National Guard?
 A. Yes, I am currently an ON-BOARD Title 32 or Title 5 (Tenure 1, 2 or 3) technician with the Indiana Air National Guard.
 B. No, I am not.
6. Do any of the following statuses apply to you?
 A. I have retired from Active Duty or the Active Guard Reserve.
 B. I am planning my Active Duty or AGR retirement.
 C. I have retired from Federal Employment or Civil Service.
 D. None of these apply to me, I have not retired from Active Duty Military or Federal Government employment
Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Does your resume support the General Experience criteria below?

Experience or training which demonstrates the applicant's knowledge of materials and equipment used in the line of work (helmets, torso harness assemblies, parachutes, survival equipment). Ability to understand written instructions and to use reference materials and manuals.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Does your resume support the Specialized Experience criteria below?

In addition to the journeyman level knowledge, experience which demonstrates the ability to plan, direct, and organize work assignments for lower grade personnel. Experience at the journeyman level includes experience or training which has demonstrated knowledge of aviation life support equipment. Experience reading and interpreting military manuals. Experience in supply procedures and property accountability. Experience collecting information and presenting it to various sized groups. Experience in planning a functional shop maintenance program is essential. Moreover must have experience which required the review of work requirements and establish priorities to meet deadlines. Experience that provided knowledge of various lines of work performed by this function. Experience which demonstrates the ability to supervise or the potential to perform such duties as evidenced by the ability to communicate knowledge of general supervisory concepts, and knowledge of shop processes. Experience in adapting existing equipment and techniques to new situations
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Does your resume support the Supervisory Experience criteria below and are you able to assume a supervisory/lead role/position? 

Planning and distributing work to subordinates on a weekly basis; explaining work requirements; selecting/recommending individuals for vacancies, promotions or reassignments; counseling employees and adjusts informal complaints and grievances with workers, and maintaining production reports and establishing performance standards.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Please read and respond to all the questions below. For each Competency / Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSA's), choose the response below that best describes your experience and/or training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application and information your references provide.
For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.
4. Ability or skill to establish deadlines and priorities based on established general schedules, methods and policies. Determine skills, materials and equipment required to do the work.
 A. I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 B. I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 C. I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 D. I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 E. I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.
5. Ability or skill to instruct subordinates on new procedures or methods and provides assistance on difficult or new problem areas.
 A. I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 B. I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 C. I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 D. I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 E. I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.
6. Knowledge or skill to note and investigate work-related problems and independently implement corrective actions which can be taken without affecting work operations controlled by other supervisors.
 A. I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 B. I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 C. I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 D. I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 E. I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.
7. Ability or skill to provide workload data, estimates, information on staffing needs, and recommendations as to the scheduling of projected work.
 A. I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 B. I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 C. I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 D. I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 E. I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected