Position Title
INTERMEDIATE PLATE PRTR
Agency
Bureau of Engraving and Printing
Announcement Number
25-BEP-12753397-A Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, June 30, 2025 to Monday, July 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current Bureau of Engraving and Printing employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current BEP employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current BEP employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current BEP employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other
3. As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal (i.e. final annual performance appraisal issued and signed by appropriate management official) dated within the last 18 months. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these specific requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so. If you fail to provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration. NOTE: If you are wanting to be considered for non competitive reinstatement a performance appraisal document MUST be submitted to be eligible. Type "yes" in the text box below if you are providing a performance appraisal meeting the above requirements with your application. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application meeting the requirement, please provide a reason in the text box below. ("N/A" is not considered an acceptable response).
4. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
5. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
7. Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.
8. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. Choose the statement that best describes your level of experience.
 A. I have experience operating a large format, computerized, high speed, sheet fed production press in a printing environment without direct supervision. I perform recurring tasks that require me to make changes to accommodate changing work requirements and priorities. I receive only general instructions on new work and report only unique situations to the supervisor.
 B. I have experience working as a 2nd Pressperson, operating a large format, high-speed, sheet fed and or web/sheet Offset Presses, with direct supervision. I perform recurring tasks that require me to make frequent changes to accommodate changing work requirements and priorities. I receive instructions from a lead press person.
 C. I am currently in a training program learning to operate a large format high-speed, sheet fed and or web/sheet Offset Press with direct supervision. I perform recurring tasks that require me to make frequent changes to accommodate changing work requirements and priorities. I receive instruction from a lead press person.
 D. None of the above.
2. This experience must be clearly documented in your resume, indicate where we can find it to ensure you receive proper credit. (limit 250 characters)
3. Select the level of experience you have setting up a press from scratch.
 A. I perform a complete Make Ready setting ink levels, inspection settings, check registration, assess fit and step and repeat, and set feeder and delivery without direct supervision.
 B. I assist a Journeyperson on a Make Ready setting ink level, inspection settings, checking registration, assessing fit and step and repeat, and setting feeder and delivery with direct supervision.
 C. I am in a training program learning the steps in a Make Ready including setting all ink levels, inspection settings, check registration, assess fit and step and repeat, and set feeder and delivery and only perform under direct supervision.
 D. I have no experience completing a Make Ready on a large format press.
4. Select ALL of the following kinds of presses with which you have experience.
 A. Large Format Offset/Web fed Press.
 B. Small format Offset/Web fed Press.
 C. Letterpress.
 D. Large Format Gravure Press.
 E. Digital Press.
 F. High Speed Copier machines.
 G. None of the above.
5. This presses experience must be clearly documented in your resume to include detail of equipment if applicable. In the space below, please indicate where we can find this information in your resume to ensure you receive proper credit. (limit 250 characters)
6. What level of hands-on experience do you have monitoring a Printing Press while operating and printing product?
 A. I monitor a large format press during runs with no direct supervision that includes pulling sheets, inspecting work and checking quality.
 B. I monitor a large format press during runs with direct supervision of a journeyman pressman that includes pulling sheets, inspecting work and checking quality.
 C. I am in training on the process of how to monitor a large format press during runs under direct supervision that includes pulling sheets, inspecting work and checking quality.
 D. I have no experience monitoring a printing press.
7. Please select ALL of the following tasks you have completed while making ready/setting up a Printing Press for production of a printed product.
 A. Installing large format Plates.
 B. Aligning large format plates.
 C. Installing surface pieces or dies.
 D. Adjusting inking levels.
 E. None of the above.
8. Please select ALL of the following tasks you have completed while making ready/setting up a Printing Press for production of a printed product.
 A. Adjusting electronic or manual ink keys.
 B. Adjusting the feeder.
 C. Setting the ink rollers.
 D. Adjusting the delivery.
 E. None of the above.
9. Do you have experience making adjustments to a Printing Press according to manufacturer specifications while in production, printing product?
 A. I make adjustments to large format printing press without direct supervision within manufacturer specifications while in production.
 B. I assist a Journeyman in making adjustments to a large format press and am under direct supervision when making changes within manufacturer specifications while in production.
 C. I am in training on how to make adjustments to a large format printing press but have not performed the tasks independently or under supervision of a journeyman.
 D. I have no experience making adjustments to a printing press.
10. If yes, indicate where we can find this experience in your resume to ensure you receive proper credit. (limit 250 characters)
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
11. Do you have experience operating any of the following types of printing presses; Flexogrophy, Lithography, Numbering/Letterpress, Block printing, Gravure?
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. If yes, indicate where we can find this experience in your resume to ensure you receive proper credit. (limit 250 characters)
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
13. Do you have experience utilizing tools and monitoring devices to maintain quality standards during production on Intaglio and or Offset Presses?
 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Do you have experience running and using an online Inspection systems while operating a Printing Press in production?
 A. Yes
 B. No
15. Do you have experience troubleshooting the cause of defective printing while operating a Printing Press?
 A. I perform troubleshooting steps including checking ink levels, print setting, plate position, basic equipment issues, etc. without direct supervision.
 B. I assist a journeyman in performing troubleshooting steps including checking ink levels, print settings, plate position, basic equipment issues, etc. but only under direct supervision.
 C. I am in a training program learning how to troubleshoot causes of defective printing that occurs during the printing process. I have not performed these outside of a training.
 D. I have no experience troubleshooting the cause of defective printing while operating a Printing Press.
16. This online inspection experience must be clearly documented in your resume to include detail of equipment if applicable. In the space below, please indicate where we can find this information in your resume to ensure you receive proper credit. (limit 250 characters)
17. Do you have experience using tools to maintain equipment in a production environment? (If yes, select ALL of the following tasks you have completed.)
 A. Using tools to maintain a multi-color 38" or more sheetfed offset
 B. Using tools to maintain a letter press
 C. Using tools to maintain a web press
 D. Oiling the press
 E. None of the above
18. Do you have experience using tools to maintain equipment in a production environment? (If yes, select ALL of the following tasks you have completed.)
 A. Cleaning plates and blankets press
 B. Making minor repairs
 C. Washing rollers
 D. Preventative maintenance
 E. None of the above
19. Which of the following tools do you have experience using? Choose all that apply.
 A. Handheld densitometers & Spectrophotometers
 B. Micrometers
 C. Ink thickness gauges
 D. Chemicals for cleaning of inks and plates
 E. None of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected