Position Title
Biologist (Forensic)
Agency
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives
Announcement Number
25-OST-DOJ-12805330-CLG Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 22, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you currently work at ATF?
 
To be eligible, you must:
Be a current permanent ATF employee on a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service. If you are unsure of your eligibility login to HR Connect to review your latest SF-50. Block 24 -Tenure must be "1 - Permanent" or "2 - Conditional" AND Block 34 - Position Occupied must be "1 -Competitive Service."
Submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) with your application package.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy; and
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; and
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you currently work at the DOJ? If so, you may be eligible to apply to this vacancy announcement.
 
To be eligible, you must:
Be a current permanent DOJ employee on a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service. If you are unsure of your eligibility, access eOPF and open your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50):  Block 24 -Tenure must be "1 - Permanent" or "2 - Conditional" AND Block 34 - Position Occupied must be "1 -Competitive Service."  If you are still unsure of your eligibility, contact the individual listed in the vacancy announcement for assistance.  
Submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) with your application package before the announcement closes.  You can obtain a copy from eOPF.  
Select "Yes" to this eligibility question. 
Based on the above, are you eligible to apply as an ATF Employee?  If you work at DOJ, select "Yes," submit the required documentation, and we will make the determination for you.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements?
The grade level or at least one of the grade levels that I am applying for is higher than I have previously held or currently hold.
The full performance level of this position is at a higher grade level than any of my previous or current position's stated full performance level(s).
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions. You may need to submit more than one SF-50. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must also reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1). 
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and you have held a position at the same or higher grade level as this position with the same or higher promotion potential?

OR

Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and have you held the full performance level of this position?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions. You may need to submit more than one SF-50. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must also reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); and status in the competitive service (position occupied field is 1).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Justice (DOJ). Your response to this assessment questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making screening decisions. This is a DOJ job application system. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this application. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration.
1. You must show you have successfully completed a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position OR a combination of education and experience --courses equivalent to a major, as shown above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. Select the choice that best describes your education and/or experience to meet the basic qualifications for this position. (Must submit transcripts to verify eligibility)
 A. Degree: biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position.
 B. I have a combination of education and experience -- courses equivalent to a major, as shown above, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 C. I do not possess the required education and/or experience to qualify for this position as shown in A or B.
2. You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade in the federal service that has equipped you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position. Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 A. I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the next lower grade level: Performing DNA examinations on the most difficult evidence without technical guidance; and Interpreting, evaluating and analyzing the results of a variety of samples, including complex mixtures; and Providing training to law enforcement and/or technical staff in the concepts of forensic DNA analysis; and Using laboratory policies, regulations, standard approaches, and methods to perform expert forensic DNA examinations; and Acting as a project manager or coordinator of ongoing complex and unique projects or programs within the laboratory.
 B. I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the next lower grade level as described above.
3. Choose the statement that best describes your level of experience in providing leadership and guidance in extending, improving, and/or monitoring one or more existing programs while developing and implementing innovative changes and long-term improvements
 A. I have extensive experience in providing leadership and guidance to one or more existing programs while developing and implementing innovative changes and long-term improvements.
 B. I have broad experience in providing leadership and guidance to one or more existing programs while developing and implementing significant changes that lead to improvements in the programs.
 C. I have limited experience in providing leadership and guidance to one or more existing programs
 D. None of the above.
4. Describe your experience with the following professional leadership responsibilities.  Check all that apply.
 A. I have experience as a manager, administrator, or coordinator of a program at a forensic laboratory.
 B. I have experience providing technical or administrative oversight in a specialized program area.
 C. I have experience planning, coordinating, and implementing a training program for forensic biology examiners.
 D. I have taken at least one leadership training seminar/course
 E. None of the above.
5. Choose the statement that best describes your experience in planning, leading, and coordinating a project or program within the laboratory.
 A. I have experience identifying program priorities that align with an agency’s goals, developing plans and setting objectives while considering resources and demands within and outside the agency. I also have experience prioritizing activities to effectively accomplish goals and objectives, delegating activities to others, and managing multiple activities simultaneously.
 B. I have experience assisting others in identifying program priorities that align with an agency’s goals, developing plans and setting objectives while considering resources demands within and outside the agency. I have also assisted others in prioritizing their activities to effectively accomplish goals and objectives, delegating activities to others, and managing multiple activities simultaneously.
 C. I have limited experience assisting others in identifying program priorities that align with an agency’s goals, developing plans and setting objectives while considering resources demands within and outside the agency. I have not assisted others in prioritizing their activities to effectively accomplish goals and objectives, delegating activities to others, and managing multiple activities simultaneously.
 D. None of the above.
6. Choose the statement that best describes your experience in training or instructing others in topics related to forensic DNA analysis:
 A. I have developed or significantly modified a training program to instruct examiners in forensic DNA analysis
 B. I have been a primary trainer, responsible for guiding examiners through a forensic DNA analysis training program.
 C. I have assisted with training examiners in some aspects of forensic DNA analysis.
 D. I have no experience training individuals in forensic DNA analysis.
7. Choose the statements that describe your ability to communicate orally with management officials at the highest levels of an organization, as well as with employees, and the public to exchange information, promote or defend a position, and gain the confidence and trust of customers. Check all that apply:
 A. I have given at least one oral technical presentation to a group of peers at a professional meeting.
 B. I have made oral presentations to agency management or decision makers explaining highly technical or complex programs, projects, or situations to facilitate understanding and exchange of information to gain buy-in.
 C. I have made an oral presentation to deliver external training and/or given a formal presentation to a group.
 D. None of the above.
8. Which of the following statements best describes your expert testimony experience?
 A. I have been qualified in a criminal court of law as an expert witness and have given testimony in the area of DNA analysis.
 B. I have received training in courtroom testimony through coursework and moot court, but have not yet testified in criminal court as an expert witness in the area of DNA analysis.
 C. I have not received training in courtroom testimony or testified as an expert witness in a criminal court of law.
9. Choose the statements that describe your ability to prepare written communication for a variety of audiences in an organized, concise and rational manner and to communicate sound technical advice to senior managers, both within and external to an organization.  Check all those that apply.
 A. I am primary author of more than one method, procedure, order and/or manual.
 B. I am published in at least one peer reviewed professional journal.
 C. I have prepared written material to justify equipment or explain technical programs, projects or situations to facilitate understanding and exchange of information.
 D. I have written letters, memorandums, and other routine correspondence to managers, peers, clients, and/or customers to exchange information regarding status of project, deadlines or other general issues.
 E. None of the above.
10. Choose the statement that best describes your skills using a wide variety of instrumentation used in a forensic biology laboratory.
 A. I have mastered the operation of the major instruments in a forensic biology laboratory. I have the ability to maintain, troubleshoot and perform routine quality control procedures on the instruments and recognize when they are not performing properly.
 B. I have demonstrated proficiency in the practical operation of the major instruments in a forensic biology laboratory and use them on a routine basis for forensic casework and / or human identification.
 C. None of the above.
11. Which of the following statements best describes your experience with forensic DNA data interpretation?
 A. I independently interpret the most complex forensic DNA data from low template profiles and complex mixtures without technical guidance.
 B. I routinely perform forensic DNA data interpretation from a variety of samples including low template profiles and mixtures, seeking guidance in only the most complex situations.
 C. I routinely interpret data from a variety of samples including simple mixtures
 D. I routinely interpret data from samples that are primarily single source.
 E. None of the above.
12. Choose the statement that best describes your skills and experience performing forensic DNA examinations:
 A. I independently process the most complex forensic evidence without technical guidance
 B. I routinely process forensic evidence, seeking guidance in only the most complex situations
 C. I routinely process forensic evidence, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee
 D. I have received training in the processing of forensic evidence but have not actually performed this work as part of a job.
 E. None of the above.
13. Choose the statement that best describes your experience with the Combined DNA Index System (CODIS):
 A. I have experience as the CODIS Administrator or Alternate CODIS Administrator in a forensic laboratory.
 B. I have experience as a CODIS User in a forensic laboratory.
 C. I have no experience with CODIS.
14. Which of the following statements describe your experience with evaluating, validating, and implementing new laboratory technologies or equipment? Check all that apply.
 A. I have evaluated new equipment or technology to determine the best option for acquisition and implementation.
 B. I have designed and conducted a validation study to implement new instrumentation or technology.
 C. I have assisted with validation of a new instrument or technology.
 D. I have no experience in evaluating or implementing new techniques.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
15. Do any of your relatives work for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives? Include: father; mother; husband; wife; son; daughter; brother; sister; uncle; aunt; first cousin; nephew; niece; father-in-law; mother-in-law; son-in-law; daughter-in-law; brother-in-law; sister-in-law; stepfather; stepmother; stepson; stepdaughter; stepbrother; stepsister; half-brother; and half-sister.
 A. Yes
 B. No
16. ATF employment is contingent upon a favorable adjudication (decision) of your background investigation. Your conduct and character must demonstrate suitability for the position for which you are applying. Unresolved matters may prevent completion of your background investigation or favorable adjudication of it. If ATF cannot complete your background investigation and adjudicate it, you will be removed from the hiring process. Are you willing to submit to the background investigation process?
 A. Yes
 B. No
17. The Department of Justice requires that you provide proof that for 3 out of the last 5 years you have resided in the United States, worked for the United States in a foreign country in a Federal or U.S. military capacity for 3 out of the last 5 years, and/or been a dependent of a Federal or U.S. military employee in a foreign country for 3 out of the last 5 years. Are you able to provide sufficient documentation to meet this residency requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
18. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected