Position Title
Contract Specialist
Agency
Air Force Civilian Career Training
Announcement Number
Q-26-DHA-12788572-1102-09 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 3, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
- you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
- your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
- your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. CTAP - Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center. 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. ICTAP - Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.  
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Maxwell AFB, AL
 B. Eielson AFB, AK
 C. Elmendorf AFB, AK
 D. Davis Monthan AFB, AZ
 E. Luke AFB, AZ
 F. Little Rock AFB, AR
 G. Beale AFB, CA
 H. Edwards AFB, CA
 I. Los Angeles, CA
 J. March AFB, CA
 K. Travis AFB, CA
 L. Vandenberg AFB, CA
 M. Air Force Academy, CO
 N. Buckley AFB, CO
 O. Peterson AFB, CO
 P. Schriever AFB, CO
 Q. Dover AFB, DE
 R. Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling, DC
 S. Eglin AFB, FL
 T. Hurlburt Field, FL
 U. MacDill AFB, FL
 V. Patrick AFB, FL
 W. Tyndall AFB, FL
 X. Dobbins AFB, GA
 Y. Moody AFB, GA
 Z. Robins AFB, GA
 AA. Hickam AFB, HI
 AB. Mountain Home AFB, ID
 AC. Scott AFB, IL
 AD. McConnell AFB, KS
 AE. Lexington, KY
 AF. Barksdale AFB, LA
 AG. Andrews AFB, MD
 AH. Hanscom AFB, MA
 AI. Westover Air Reserve Base, MA
 AJ. Columbus AFB, MS
 AK. Keesler AFB, MS
 AL. Whiteman AFB, MO
 AM. Malmstrom AFB, MT
 AN. Offutt AFB, NE
 AO. Nellis AFB, NV
 AP. Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst, NJ
 AQ. McGuire AFB, NJ
 AR. Cannon AFB, NM
 AS. Holloman AFB, NM
 AT. Kirtland AFB, NM
 AU. Rome, NY
 AV. Seymour Johnson AFB, NC
 AW. Grand Forks AFB, ND
 AX. Minot AFB, ND
 AY. Wright-Patterson AFB, OH
 AZ. Altus AFB, OK
 BA. Tinker AFB, OK
 BB. Vance AFB, OK
 BC. Pittsburgh, PA
 BD. Charleston AFB, SC
 BE. Shaw AFB, SC
 BF. Ellsworth AFB, SD
 BG. Arnold AFB, TN
 BH. Dyess AFB, TX
 BI. Fort Sam Houston, TX
 BJ. Goodfellow AFB, TX
 BK. Lackland AFB, TX
 BL. Laughlin AFB, TX
 BM. Randolph AFB, TX
 BN. Sheppard AFB, TX
 BO. Hill AFB, UT
 BP. Arlington County, VA
 BQ. Langley AFB, VA
 BR. Pentagon, Arlington, VA
 BS. Fairchild AFB, WA
 BT. Warren AFB, WY
2. I am a current permanent or former federal employee with less than 52 weeks break in the competitive service and I am applying for this position to be considered as a:
 A. Promotion Candidate - I am eligible for promotion consideration since I have held the next lower grade for at least 52 weeks on a permanent basis in the competitive service or I am a current FWS employee. NOTE: You must submit a copy of SF-50(s) that demonstrate you meet the one year time-in-grade requirement if applicable (i.e., Promotion, Within Grade/Rate Increase).
 B. Repromotion Candidate - I am eligible for non-competitive repromotion consideration since I have held a higher grade on a permanent basis in the competitive federal service or a permanent position with the same or higher promotion potential as this position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis.
 C. Non-competitive Reassignment Candidate - I am eligible for non-competitive reassignment consideration since I currently hold a permanent competitive service position in the federal government with equal or higher promotion potential as this position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis held on a permanent basis.
 D. Non-competitive Voluntary Change to Lower Grade (CLG) Candidate - I am eligible and requesting consideration for a Voluntary CLG since I have held, or currently hold a permanent competitive service position at a higher grade in the federal service. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your current permanent position.
 E. I am not eligible for any of the above considerations.
3. I am a current or prior military member of the Armed Forces that is retiring or has been retired less than 180 days. Hiring (appointments or transfers) of retiring or retired members of the Armed Forces to positions in any DoD Component during the 180 days immediately following retirement may only be made IAW DoDI 1402.01 and may require a waiver for appointment prior to the 180 days from official military retirement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you retired from the Federal civilian service or are you in a phased retirement and receiving an annuity?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Current or Former Political Appointees: The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently employed, or have been employed within the last 5 years, in any one of the categories below, you must disclose this information. Failure to disclose this information could result in disciplinary action including removal from Federal Service.

Are you a current or former political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316?
-OR-
Are you a current or former Schedule A or Schedule C political appointee, or an appointee who serves/served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch?
-OR-
Are you a current or former political appointee or non-career SES Executive Branch employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Did you voluntarily separate from federal service and receive Voluntary Separation Incentive Pay (VSIP)?

NOTE: If your response is yes, you must provide a copy of your SF 50 or Leave and Earnings statement showing receipt of payment as part of your application submission. If you become reemployed by the federal government within 5 years of separating from federal service and have received a VSIP, you will be required to repay the full VSIP amount paid to you.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a military spouse who is currently married to an active duty military member?

NOTE: This item is for demographic reporting only. It does not confer eligibility or preference. If you want to apply as a military spouse, you must select from the eligibility options above. Military spouse and military spouse preference may not be available for all positions.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. If you are a military spouse who is currently married to an active duty military member, did you relocate with the military member to their current duty station?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Not applicable. I am not a military spouse.
Conditions of Employment
All applicants must complete the following section. This section will be used to determine your ability and willingness to accept certain conditions of employment or meet certain requirements of the position. Please respond 'Yes' or 'No' to the following statements. Failure to respond to this section will result in an ineligible rating.
1. I am able and willing to submit to pre-employment drug testing (urinalysis) as a condition of employment. This position has been identified as a Test Designated Position (TDP) and I am able and willing to refrain from the use of illegal drugs and if requested, to submit to random drug testing (urinalysis) on a recurring basis. Further, I am able and willing to sign a statement acknowledging the position occupied is identified as a TDP and understand I am subject to random drug testing as a condition of employment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. All current federal employees must have a minimum performance rating of acceptable or higher to be considered for placement. Current federal employees who have a current unacceptable performance rating will be excluded from consideration. Note: Failure to select one of the below responses will render you ineligible for further consideration.
 A. I am a current federal employee and have a current acceptable performance rating or higher.
 B. I am a current federal employee and have a current unacceptable performance rating.
 C. I am a new current federal employee and have not received a performance rating as of this date.
 D. Not applicable, I am not a current federal employee.
3. I am able and willing to submit to an extensive background investigation to verify my suitability for employment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. This position requires a Secret security clearance. I am able and willing to undergo a comprehensive background investigation which includes, but is not limited to, contact with all references, employers, co-workers, personal associates, and review of my driving record, credit history, criminal history, and military service.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I am able and willing to file a Confidential Financial Disclosure Report as required by this position on a recurring basis.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected