Position Title
Meteorologist
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
NWS-25-12797071-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 11, 2025 to Wednesday, September 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and 
You have not yet been separated. 
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?

If Yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:

This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. I meet the Individual Occupational Requirements for the Meteorology Series, 1340 because I have:

 A. A Degree in meteorology, atmospheric science, or other natural science major that included: (1) At least 24 semester (36 quarter) hours of credit in meteorology/atmospheric science including a minimum of: a) Six semester hours of atmospheric dynamics and thermodynamics;* b) Six semester hours of analysis and prediction of weather systems (synoptic/mesoscale); c) Three semester hours of physical meteorology; and d) Two semester hours of remote sensing of the atmosphere and/or instrumentation. (2) Six semester hours of physics, with at least one course that includes laboratory sessions.* (3) Three semester hours of ordinary differential equations.* (4) At least nine semester hours of course work appropriate for a physical science major in any combination of three or more of the following: physical hydrology, statistics, chemistry, physical oceanography, physical climatology, radiative transfer, aeronomy, advanced thermodynamics, advanced electricity and magnetism, light and optics, and computer science. * There is a prerequisite or corequisite of calculus for course work in atmospheric dynamics and thermodynamics, physics, and differential equations. Calculus courses must be appropriate for a physical science major. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 B. Combination of education and experience -- course work as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 C. I do not meet the Individual Occupational Requirement for the Meteorology Series, 1340.
2. In addition to meeting the Individual Occupational Requirements, select the statement that best describes your experience performing the work of a Meteorologist, GS-1340-13 or equivalent grade level in the Federal service:

 A. I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-12) in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Participating in the development or preparation of weather forecasts, outlooks, or warnings; Analyzing and evaluating weather forecast programs or guidance to identify process improvements or improve reliability; and Providing weather forecasts or other technical materials to the public or other customers.
 B. I do not possess the experience described above.
Assessment 2
1. As a National Center meteorologist, ensuring forecast accuracy and effective communication are reasons to frequently consult and coordinate with those on shift with you.

 A. True
 B. False
2. A significant storm is developing, and another forecaster on shift describes the forecast approach they would like to use. This approach is well-reasoned, but your view is different and would suggest an alternative approach. Although your view is also well-reasoned, because the other forecaster is more experienced you should keep these thoughts to yourself and focus on other duties.

 A. True
 B. False
3. In general, multi-model ensembles provide more skillful weather predictions than individual, deterministic models when evaluated over many cases.

 A. True
 B. False
4. The shift lead has stepped away from the operations area for a few minutes. You receive a call from a senior government official requesting more information on a storm system you are not responsible for monitoring, but the shift lead is monitoring. You should ask them specific questions on the information they require, the best method to contact them, and assure them of a quick response and a reasonable estimate as to when the information will be delivered.

 A. True
 B. False
5. You are on shift during a major winter storm impacting the East Coast. Deadlines are approaching for the winter forecast, technical discussion, and several other high-priority products. At the same time, you are still responsible for other areas in your forecast domain, but you have not yet finished analyzing the model data for them and time is running short. You decide the best course of action is to focus only on the East Coast storm and assume the other areas do not require attention since they are lower impact.

 A. True
 B. False
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
6. I certify that I did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence tool (such as a large language model) to complete the responses above. To the best of my knowledge, all information provided in my application is true and accurate. I affirm that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration or termination of employment if hired.

I further certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement, reviewed my responses to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and understand the requirements regarding supporting documentation, including what must be submitted and applicable deadlines.

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected