Position Title
Personnel Security Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZG-12814258-26-SW Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 10, 2025 to Monday, October 20, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs within the VISN the position is located?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 C. Minneapolis, MN
 F. Omaha, NE
 A. Des Moines, IA
 B. Iowa City, IA
 D. Saint Cloud, MN
 E. Grand Island, NE
 G. Fargo, ND
 H. Fort Meade, SD
 I. Hot Springs, SD
 J. Sioux Falls, SD


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


4.
Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Name and Contact Information
Job title
Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2021)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week if part-time)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held.
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

Do you confirm that the above information is clearly stated for each work entry you are claiming experience for, and that each entry is full time unless otherwise annotated with part-time hours?
 Yes
 No


5.
This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-09 and GS-11. For the GS-09 grade level you must have completed at least 52 weeks at the next lower grade level, GS-07; for the GS-11 grade level you must have completed at least 52 weeks at the next lower grade level, GS-09. Please select the one response that supports the grade level TIG requirements you meet.
 Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-07 grade level or equivalent to qualify for the GS-09 grade level.
 Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-09 grade level or equivalent to qualify for the GS-11 grade level.
 No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-07 grade level or equivalent to qualify for the GS-09 grade level.
 No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-09 grade level or equivalent to qualify for the GS-11 grade level.
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-11 grade level or equivalent.
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 week. (ie: WG or other pay plan)


Assessment 1
1.
GS 9: From the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience related to the GS 9 level.
 I possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in Federal service related to the duties of the Personnel Security Specialist position. Specialized experience for this position is defined as applying federal laws, a wide range of federal regulations, agency policies, management practices, and/or information technology procedures; resolving security problems; utilizing automated information systems; coordinating objectives and plans for a personnel security program; and conducting safety and service level risk assessment procedures to ensure compliance with regulations, policies, and procedures.
 I possess a master’s or equivalent graduate degree OR 2 (two) full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.B. or J.D., if related
 I have a combination of specialized experience and graduate level education (beyond the first year).
 I do not meet the above specialized experience/education.


2.
GS 11: From the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience related to the GS 11 level.
 I possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in Federal service related to the duties of the Personnel Security Specialist position. Specialized experience for this position is defined as applying federal laws, a wide range of federal regulations, agency policies, management practices, and/or information technology procedures; interpreting policy originating from higher organizational levels for local adaptation; resolving difficult and complex security problems; utilizing automated information systems; providing various reports via spreadsheet and database software; coordinating objectives and plans for a personnel security program; and conducting safety and service level risk assessment procedures to ensure compliance with regulations, policies, and procedures.
 I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree OR 3 (three) full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.M., if related
 I have a combination of specialized experience and graduate level education (beyond the first 2 years).
 I do not meet the above specialized experience/education.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙