Position Title
Forensics Investigative Specialist
Agency
Office of Inspector General
Announcement Number
25-HUD OIG-12798699 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 12, 2025 to Friday, September 19, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency covered by an OPM Interchange agreement that conveys noncompetitive eligibility?

For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=InterchangeAgreementsWithOtherMeritSystems

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following merit promotion categories?
Current Federal civilian employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current Excepted service employee covered by an Interchange Agreement
Former Federal employee with Reinstatement eligibility
Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA)
Current Federal employee serving on a VRA appointment
Land Management Employee eligible under Public Law 114-47
Other competitive category not listed above (you must submit proof of eligibility)
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you eligible to be appointed under the Military Spouse Noncompetitive Appointing Authority based on any of the following categories?
You are the spouse of an active duty member of the Armed Forces.
You are the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs.
You are the widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status, and you have not re-married.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources. (https://www.usajobs.gov/Veterans)

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a former federal employee that has been separated for at least one full year and is eligible to be non-competitively reinstated to a higher grade or full-performance level than which you left federal employment?
(Note: you MUST provide:  1) a copy of your separation SF-50 (the "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2"); AND 2) the last performance appraisal you received from your federal employment which shows at least a fully successful rating.)

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Do you currently hold (or have you previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you eligible under any other miscellaneous appointing authority not listed thus far, such as (but not all inclusive to):
Postal Career Service Employee;
Postal Rate Commission Employee;
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; 
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee; or 
Foreign overseas employee or eligible family member of former overseas employee
 For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=MiscellaneousAuthoritiesNotRegulated .  To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

For more information on Foreign overseas employment please review the following: https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#NontemporaryForeignService or https://www.state.gov/global-community-liaison-office/family-member-employment/family-member-employment-in-the-d-c-area/non-competitive-eligibility-nce/#NCE5
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you eligible for consideration as a Peace Corps, VISTA, or Action volunteer?  If you select this option, you are required to provide acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility by submitting proof of employment from the appropriate agency with your completed application.
National Service (Peace Corps and VISTA)

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
3. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
Performance Appraisal
1.

As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal that includes the final rating, dated within the last year. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these specific requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so. If you fail to provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration. Type "yes" in the text box below if you are providing a performance appraisal meeting the above requirements with your application. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application meeting the requirement, please provide a reason in the text box below. ("N/A" is not considered an acceptable response).

Assessment 1
1. Specialized experience: For the GS-14, You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service and is directly related to the position as listed and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience is defined as:
- Demonstrated experience utilizing applicable principles, procedures, and techniques to ensure digital evidence is collected, transported, and stored properly; AND
- Demonstrated experience processing and analyzing digital evidence; AND
- Demonstrated experience using automated databases to manage information.

Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 A. I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-13 level as described above.
 B. I do not have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.
2. Select the choice that best describes your experience in handling demanding and stressful situations in an office environment.
 A. I have no experience handling stressful and demanding situations.
 B. I have dealt with occasional periods of mild stress as part of my regular job duties.
 C. As part of my regular job duties, I have dealt on a daily basis with moderate stress (e.g. handling heavy workloads).
 D. As part of my regular job duties, I have frequently dealt with highly stressful situations as the standard work environment (e.g. heavy workloads, tight deadlines, rapidly changing priorities, crisis situations).
3. Select the statement(s) that best describe your experience effectively making authoritative verbal presentations or briefings to personnel on issues relating to the collection of forensic evidence as it relates to law enforcement investigations:
 A. Experience making authoritative verbal presentations or briefings to law enforcement personnel, management, or senior executives on issues relating to forensic evidence as it relates to law enforcement investigations.
 B. Represents the Department and Bureau or other Federal, State, and Local agencies in their forensic program initiatives for the purpose of professional exchange of technical information.
 C. Training and/or experience serving as a lead course developer and/or instructor utilizing lesson plans for lectures or classroom presentations.
 D. None of the above.
4. Select the choice that best describes your experience negotiating and/or influencing others through oral communication.
 A. I have no experience performing this task.
 B. I have regularly justified, persuaded, negotiated, or resolved matters involving significant or controversial issues with a full range of internal and external individuals.
 C. I have regularly participated in discussions in which the purpose was to plan, coordinate, or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific business problems with individuals or groups who are working toward mutual goals and who have basically cooperative attitudes.
 D. I have regularly conducted discussions or participated in workgroups in which the purpose was to influence, motivate, or persuade persons or groups that are skeptical or in disagreement in order to obtain the desired effect (e.g. gaining compliance with an established policy or regulation).
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. Do you have experience making authoritative verbal and written presentations (training) or briefings to personnel on issues relating to forensic policy and/or investigative equipment systems related to Cybercrime Investigations?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Select the answer that best indicates your experience in expressing ideas effectively in writing.
 A. I have composed correspondence that is highly technical and sensitive, or written materials that presents highly sensitive and technical information.
 B. I have prepared standard progress reports, composed responses to requests for information about programs, and/or written summaries of recommendations discussed during meetings for documentation purposes.
 C. I have communicated, in writing, weekly updates of programs or assignments to a supervisor.
 D. I have a experience effectively expressing ideas in writing.
 E. I have no experience in expressing ideas in writing.
7. Choose all statements which best describe your experience in effectively presenting information both orally and in writing
 A. Provide informal verbal briefings to colleagues or supervisors.
 B. Present budgetary requirements to management.
 C. Conduct formal briefings or presentations.
 D. Complete forms, reports and other written materials for internal distribution.
 E. Prepare external memoranda or other correspondence for distribution outside the agency.
 F. I have no experience as described above.
8. Select the items that you have experience with pertaining to forensic digital investigative and evidence recovery techniques.
 A. Performed onsite forensic evidence collection in the course of a criminal investigation.
 B. Assisted other law enforcement agencies with the collection of forensic evidence in the course of a criminal investigation.
 C. Collect and compile highly technical data pertaining to criminal investigations utilized in court proceedings.
 D. Serve as agency technical expert for forensic policies and procedures.
 E. Advise senior level management on appropriateness of forensic policies affecting the agency mission.
 F. Possesses a concept and technique to propose system changes.
 G. Prepare detailed reports and studies leading to the quality and effectiveness of the forensic practices being utilized.
 H. I have no experience in any of the above tasks.
9. Select the items that reflect your abilities concerning the analysis of multi-level data sets for use in criminal investigations.
 A. Experience identifying investigative leads through a variety of data sets used for prosecution in federal court.
 B. Experience in collecting significant investigative leads, utilizing computer systems for analysis, and providing results to Criminal Investigators and Assistant United States Attorneys for case development.
 C. Able to testify as an expert witness on analytical processes taken throughout the course of an investigation.
 D. Utilized a variety of analysis tools to gather investigative leads and present findings to criminal investigators and senior management.
 E. Prepare and review investigative reports based on analysis conducted that is used in the support of criminal investigations.
 F. I have no experience in any of the above tasks.
10. Which of the following describes your forensic certification level as it relates to the Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (CIGIE) Quality Standards for Digital Forensics (QSDF)?
 A. I am certified as a computer forensic examiner to a standard that meets or exceeds those suggested by the CIGIE.
 B. I am not certified as a computer forensic examiner to a standard that meets or exceeds those suggested by the CIGIE but I have a completed some forensic training.
 C. I am not certified as a computer forensic examiner to a standard that meets or exceeds those suggested by the CIGIE, but I have a background in forensic process and techniques.
 D. No, I am not certified as a computer forensic examiner to a standard that meets or exceeds those suggested by the CIGIE.
11. Which of the following best describes your experience developing policies and procedures based on forensic methodologies?
 A. As part of my duties, I routinely developed policies and procedures based on forensic methodologies.
 B. As part of my duties, I sometimes developed policies and procedures based on forensic methodologies.
 C. As part of my duties, I have been exposed to developing policies and procedures based on forensic methodologies.
 D. I have no experience developing policies and procedures based on forensic methodologies.
12. Which best describes your experience as it relates to the procurement process of forensic equipment?
 A. As part of my duties, I developed complete procurement packages to include Statement of Work, Sole Source Justification, Market Research and have performed Test and Evaluations, and Reviewed contract responses.
 B. As part of my duties, I sometimes developed complete procurement packages to include Statement of Work, Sole Source Justification, Market Research and have performed Test and Evaluations, and Reviewed contract responses.
 C. I have not been involved in the procurement process of forensic equipment, but have trained in the procurement process and have assisted with developing procurement packages.
 D. None of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected