Position Title
Public Safety Dispatcher
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
AK-1537-DENA-25-12734483-LH Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 9, 2025 to Wednesday, July 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.

This position is being filled under the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA) local hiring authority. The ANILCA local hiring authority allows federal land management agencies like the National Park Service to give selection preference to eligible local applicants for qualifying jobs with the National Park Service. 
 

Do you meet the eligibility requirements for selection preference under the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA) local hiring authority? 


To be eligible, you must: 

Have lived or worked in or near the locality of the job posting (i.e. the specific location/s you selected) as outlined in the job announcement (see: Areas considered "near") long enough to have acquired local expertise. 
Possess special natural or cultural resource knowledge of the area. 


Your application package or resume must clearly document how you meet these requirements. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
6
7
8
2. When you applied to this job, did you have any engagement with a National Park Service (NPS) Recruiter?
 A. No. I did not have any engagement with an NPS recruiter.
 B. Yes. I attended an NPS Federal Resume Webinar.
 C. Yes. At a virtual or in-person recruitment or job fair.
 D. Yes. I received an email from an NPS Recruiter.
3. Please briefly provide where in your resume (e.g., section heading, title of the position(s), dates employed) you have noted the experience that describes your special knowledge or expertise of natural or cultural resources within Alaska Public Lands (to include the periods where you have lived or worked in or near the area of consideration - see the announcement for the areas considered "near")
Assessment 1
1. As a condition of employment for this position, all public safety dispatch personnel must have access to the Alaska Public Safety Information Network (APSIN) and National Crime Information Center (NCIC) systems to perform job duties. Have you ever been convicted of a misdemeanor or felony?

 A. Yes, I have been convicted of a misdemeanor or felony.
 B. No, I have not been convicted of a misdemeanor or felony.
2. From the statements below, please select the one statement that best matches your typing ability. If after certification of typing skills, it is determined the incumbent does not have or maintains at least a proficiency of 40 words per minute or higher, the incumbent may be removed for a failure to maintain a condition of employment. Also, please list your typing speed in your resume
 A. I self-certify that I can type at least 40 words per minute.
 B. I self-certify that I cannot type at least 40 words per minute.
3. Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.

Failure to agree to this statement will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.

 A. Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected