Position Title
Supervisory Program Specialist (Import/Export Document Analyst)
Agency
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
Announcement Number
MP-12798307-25-VS Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 12, 2025 to Thursday, September 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. Your answers will be used to determine your eligibility to apply to this job opportunity announcement. You will be considered under the eligibility option(s) to which you answer YES. Select YES to all eligibility options for which you want to be considered. If you respond NO to meeting the criteria for all the eligibilities, you will not be considered for the position(s) under this announcement.

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration for EACH selected eligibility. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration.
1. Are you a current Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment AND you have held or currently hold a position on a permanent basis in the competitive service with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Sacramento, CA
 B. Gainesville, FL
 C. Topeka, KS
 D. Frankfort, KY
 E. Jefferson City, MO
 F. Albany, NY
 G. Raleigh, NC
 H. Oklahoma City, OK
 I. Tumwater, WA
 J. Madison, WI
2. Are you a retiree receiving a civilian Federal or FSA County Annuity?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Have you ever received a voluntary separation incentive payment (VSIP or buyout) to leave the Federal civilian service or FSA County position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former: Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a federal employee receiving a recruitment, relocation, retention and/or other incentive payment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Core Questions
1. Has your work schedule been full-time, i.e., 35-40 hours per week, for every position listed on your resume or OF-612?

If yes, please type Yes.
If no, please type No and include the following in your response for all positions held: position title, employer, dates employed (MM/DD/YY), work schedule (i.e., Full-Time (FT), Part-Time (PT), etc.), and hours/week. Please list in order with current/most recent position first.
Failure to provide all requested information may prevent us from giving credit for experience.
2. I understand for information on the status of my application and the outcome of the application process, I (the applicant) must inquire through USAJOBS. No separate notification will be sent to me. To view the status of my application and the outcome of the application process, I must go to the USAJOBS website and log into My Account. Once in My Account, I must enter the "Application Status" section of the website.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD 214, 50B, performance appraisal may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I understand that any correspondence necessary will be conducted via e-mail and sent to the e-mail address I provided in this application process. I must keep this e-mail address current.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. If you are, or ever were, a federal civilian employee in a permanent position in the competitive service, what is the highest grade level you held, excluding temporary promotions? (Please include the pay plan, e.g. GS-7, WG-10, or NA for not applicable). (limit 250 characters)
6. If you are, or ever were, a federal civilian employee, please indicate the start date and end dates of the highest graded permanent positions you held, excluding temporary promotions (e.g. MM/YYYY to MM/YYYY, MM/YYYY to present, or NA for not applicable). (limit 250 characters)
7. I understand that if I am a current or former federal employee, I must submit an SF-50 showing my career/career-conditional status AND a performance appraisal dated within 18 months or as statement detailing the reason for not submitting the appraisal as part of the application package.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. GS-11 - Choose one answer that best describes your education and experience.
 A. I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or at least three full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree in a field related to the work of this position as described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 C. I possess a combination of specialized experience and graduate education beyond the first two years of graduate study that together meet the requirements for this position.
 D. I do not meet any of the requirements as described.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. Can you cite a situation where you can take credit for the growth and development of one or more staff members or co-workers?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Which of the following development activities have you personally conducted for the benefit of persons engaged in professional learning activities or serving as members of your organization?
 A. Developed and delivered presentations, lectures,
 B. Wrote professional papers and presented them at scientific or professional conferences
 C. Developed formal academic coursework and conducted classes accredited by colleges / universities
 D. Served as a guest lecturer in classes held by colleges, universities, or formal in-service training programs
 E. Conducted on the job training for members of my work group or larger organization
 F. Assisted individuals prepare and implement individual development plans (IDPs)
 G. None of the above
4. Which of the following actions have you taken to enhance the development of employees?
 A. Made resources available to address high priority training or development activities required to implement new technical processes or automated systems
 B. Planned for, budgeted, and implemented skills assessment and management developmental activities, programs, and assignments for employees
 C. Engineered cross functional work assignments to enhance the exposure of employees to other components of the organization or other technical disciplines.
 D. Provided resources and training to employees pertaining to their responsibilities and opportunities to develop non-supervisory staff
 E. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. Have you been trained in and applied change management principles and tools (including a sense of urgency) to assist you deal with and manage changing conditions effectively?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Which of the following change management principles have you applied successfully when implementing process, technology or organizational changes?
 A. Understanding the change involved
 B. Differentiating between change and transition
 C. Handling resistance
 D. Handling group dynamics
 E. Using systems approaches
 F. Articulating the benefits of the change for individuals and the organization
 G. None of the above
7. Please identify which of the following changing conditions you have dealt with while maintaining unit productivity and quality:
 A. Deadlines
 B. Requirements/specifications
 C. Budget/staff resources
 D. Technology
 E. Organizational structure
 F. Management philosophy
 G. Leadership
 H. Legal or policy requirements
 I. Work place environment or conditions e.g. telecommuting, flexible work schedules
 J. None of the above
8. Choose all of the statements that best describe your experience impacting and influencing others:
 A. Develop factual and logical arguments/rationale to persuade others to support my position, plans, or actions
 B. Adapt my plans and actions to resonate with, and appeal to, others’ interests and preferences while still maintaining a focus on attaining goals
 C. Anticipate and prepare for others’ reactions and objections and positions issues accordingly
 D. Build consensus between groups, utilize experts or other third parties to influence others
 E. Assemble coalitions or agreements across my network to support a project or change initiative- build “behind-the-scenes” support for ideas
 F. None of the above
9. I have demonstrated organizational awareness in the following ways:

 A. Recognize, and work effectively with, the key policy and decision makers.
 B. Navigate both the formal and informal structure and climate/culture of the organization including boundaries and sensitivities.
 C. Work organizational leverage points by anticipating effect of one’s actions on specific people, departments, and the overall organization.
 D. Recognize underlying problems, opportunities, and/or external political forces affecting the organization such as current trends, changes, and political realities.
 E. Work within the strategic context of the organization including being responsive to constituents and the larger community and addressing long- and short-term issues and opportunities.
 F. None of the above
10.
From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that reflect your experience and abilities.
 A. Facilitate the resolution of competing or conflicting interests among co-workers whose cooperation is essential to the success of a project
 B. Negotiate with and influence others in order to gain their commitment to pursue new initiatives or technologies
 C. Interact and perform effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables or work assignments
 D. Provide direction, guidance or instruction to members of inter-disciplinary teams charged with carrying out a technical project
 E. Administer consequences, hold others accountable and enforce program policies and standards in the workplace
 F. Use consensus building techniques to persuade representatives of outside groups that hold opposing views or positions, to reach agreement on important issues
 G. Effectively persuade employees to adopt new methods, procedures or techniques in order to accomplish their work
 H. Use skills in diplomacy and liaison to resolve controversy or resolve problems
 I. Work closely with managers to resolve problems, analyze alternatives, negotiate differences, or develop improvements
 J. Explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations
 K. Research topics and present information to managers, supervisors, or groups of employees
 L. Use persuasive techniques to obtain cooperation and agreement between parties for a mutually agreeable solution
 M. None of the above
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
11. Advising management on administrative policies and procedures.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
12. Managing the storage of electronic data and vital records.
 A. Networks
 B. SharePoint
 C. Tracking using a spreadsheet
 D. Databases
 E. Document management systems
 F. None of the above
12a. If you responded that you have experience to this question, please indicate in the box below where this training and/or experience is represented on your resume. Please list only the relevant position title(s), organization(s), and dates held.
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
13. Providing interpretations of laws and regulations.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
14. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 A. Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 B. No, I do not certify and I understand that by responding “no” to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected