Position Title
Supervisory Contact Representative
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBZY-12820712-26-PJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 22, 2025 to Wednesday, October 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Topeka, KS
 B. Waco, TX


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Contact Representative position with the Department of Veterans Affairs. Please select the best response to the question(s).


Time-in-Grade Restriction: Current Federal Employees Critical Note: Please provide your most recent SF-50 and your latest Within Grade Increase or Promotion SF-50 as well. The most recent SF-50 allows us to verify your current status, appointment, agency and/or duty station to confirm your Eligibility to Apply. The latest WIGI or Promotion SF-50 allows us to verify Time in Grade (TIG). Without these, we are unable to verify the requirement and you could be deemed unqualified for Time-in-Grade or not providing the proper documentation for us to do so. (If you have not held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks, this question does not apply to you). For this vacancy, applicants must have held grade GS-08 or higher for at least a year to be eligible for the GS-09 grade level of this position. The grade must have been held in the Federal service but may have been in any occupation (SF-50s Required).


Minimum Qualification Requirements: Carefully read the following descriptions of the required specialized experience required for the position. Your resume and supporting documentation must support your response. Applicants must have one (1) full year of specialized experience related to this position. This experience must have been equivalent to at least the GS-08 grade level in the Federal Service.

Specialized experience: Examples of specialized experience would typically include but are not limited to: Experience in supervising and leading Contact Representatives; Experience in resolving issues pertaining to first-party and third-party billing; Experience in providing eligibility and benefits counseling; Experience in completing daily, monthly, quarterly, and annual reports and statistical data analyses; Experience in providing guidance to resolve issues.

ALL APPLICANTS Critical Note: Evidence of specialized experience must be supported by detailed documentation of duties performed in positions held on your resume. You must provide work experience information such as hours per week, salary, and starting/ending dates of employment (month and year format) to establish you have at least 52 weeks one (1) full year of Specialized Experience at or comparable to the required grade level. Failure to provide the required information on your resume to accurately assess your experience may result in being deemed unqualified for this position. Information on building federal resumes can be found at https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/faq/application/documents/resume/what-to-include/


1.
Specialized Experience Requirements: Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.
 I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-8 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization.
 No, I do not meet this requirement; therefore, I am not qualified for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
RETURN TO OFFICE (RTO): According to the presidential memorandum signed on January 20th, 2025, by President Trump, all agencies are required to return to in-person work, link below. Do you acknowledge the Presidential return to office for Federal employees?

https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/return-to-in-person-work/
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙