Position Title
Contract Specialist (Direct Hire)
Agency
Executive Office for U.S. Attorneys and the Office of the U.S. Attorneys
Announcement Number
25-DC-12754159-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 8, 2025 to Wednesday, July 16, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center help.usajobs.gov/index.php/What_is_CTAP%3F)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center. https://help.usajobs.gov/index.php/What_is_ICTAP%3F
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
7
9
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Justice (DOJ). Your response to this assessment questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making screening decisions. This is a DOJ job application system. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this application. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration.
For the following questions, please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience. You may select only one response for each question. If you feel that your education or experience exceeds all of the descriptions for a particular question, choose the description that is the closest level to the experience or education that you possess. Failure to respond to these questions will result in an ineligible rating.
1. From the descriptions below, select the ONE response that BEST describes that you meet the basic requirement as a GS-7/9 Contract Specialist.
 A. I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's or higher degree with a major in any field.
 B. I have at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management.
 C. I do not meet the basic requirements as described above.
2. From the description below, select ONE response that BEST describes the education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform as a Contract Specialist, GS-1102-7.

 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-5 level in federal service. Specialized experience is defined as experience reviewing invoices against purchase orders or contracts to confirm that the terms are consistent; using established procedures to process applications for contracting officer warrants, reviewing vendors? applications for bidder?s mailing lists, screening incoming purchase request item descriptions for accuracy and adequacy and monitoring the status of purchase orders; reviewing and reconciling documents and records and resolving a variety of problems by coordinating with vendors and personnel in receiving, supply, and buying offices; determining contacts to reference sources to investigate and resolve routine or recurring discrepancies related to item and/or price differences, leftover funds, quantities outside allowable variances, and similar problems; identifying reasons for discrepancies and initiating corrective action.
 B. I have one full academic year of graduate education or law school. To qualify for GS-1102 positions on the basis of graduate education, graduate education in one or a combination of the following fields is required: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management.
 C. I possess a bachelor?s degree with Superior Academic Achievement for two-grade interval positions in a course of study that directly reflects the job-related KSAs/competencies necessary to satisfy the minimum qualifications and perform the duties of the position. (Superior Academic Achievement requires the applicant possess a grade point average of 3.0 or higher on a 4.0 scale, class standing in the upper third of a graduating class or major subdivision, or membership in a national scholastic honor society). To qualify for GS-1102 positions on the basis of graduate education, graduate education in one or a combination of the following fields is required: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management.
 D. I have a combination of specialized experience as described in A and education as described in B which when combined equal 100% of the requirements. Combinations of successfully completed graduate education and experience may be used to meet total qualification requirements. In order to qualify based on a combination, graduate education must be in excess of 1 full year.
 E. I do not have the education or experience as described above.
3. From the description below, select ONE response that BEST describes the education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform as a Contract Specialist, GS-1102-9.

 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-7 in federal service. Specialized experience is defined as experience reviewing requisitions and determining appropriate method of procurement; developing procurement plans and strategy by reviewing market conditions, specifications, and technical requirements; determining adequacy and completeness of available sources, contact with manufacturing representative or other possible authoritative sources; compiling bidders lists and utilizing other source lists to facilitate requirements; preparing statement of work (SOW) and other documents necessary prior to a formal solicitation process; evaluating, in conjunction with subject-matter experts, proposals, unsolicited proposals and other bid documents; drafting final contract documents; ensuring delivery of requirements and receipt of invoices for payment and closeout of received services or supplies; purchasing common supplies available off-the-shelf, items that are manufactured to order or constitute specialized purchases or services, such as expert witnesses, litigative consultant services, construction, IT and complex equipment and services; closing out purchase orders in accordance with agency instructions.
 B. I have two full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education or a Master?s Degree or equivalent graduate degree or LL.B. or J.D (accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management). To qualify for GS-1102 positions on the basis of graduate education, graduate education in one or a combination of the following fields is required: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management.
 C. I have a combination of specialized experience as described in A and education as described in B which when combined equal 100% of the requirements. Combinations of successfully completed graduate education and experience may be used to meet total qualification requirements. In order to qualify based on a combination, graduate education must be in excess of 1 full year.
 D. I do not have the education or experience as described above.
4. NARRATIVE: Identify the specific experience from your resume or cover letter that validates your response. Also, list the name and contact information of someone who can verify your response.
5. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this program.

I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

I understand a comprehensive background investigation, including a check of my credit history and a pre-employment drug screening, is required for this position.

 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected