Position Title
Supervisory Management and Program Analyst
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12794611-OSI-IMP-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 10, 2025 to Friday, September 19, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current USCIS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. The Reemployment Priority List (RPL) is the mechanism DHS uses to give reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees separated by reduction-in-force (RIF), or fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a former USCIS employee?  If so, have you met all of the following criteria?
Registered for the RPL program, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupied a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current/most recent performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent, and
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606
For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, visit 5 CFR 330 Subpart B.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
My SF-50 showing Separation - RIF. If that is not available yet, then official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who is in a permanent position that is in the competitive service (see block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type)?

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of our SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. I acknowledge the following conditions if I choose to submit my resume through the USAJOBS Resume Builder:
I understand that resumes submitted through USAJOBS Resume Builder are converted to a PDF format when they are transmitted to USA Staffing from the USAJOBS applicant interface and additional spaces/page gaps are added to resumes during the Resume Builder conversion process;
Based on the above conditions, I understand that USCIS strongly encourages me to save my resume to a PDF document and upload the PDF document instead of submitting my resume created through Resume Builder;
I understand that USCIS' human resources will only review the first 2 pages of my resume to determine eligibility/qualifications for this position;
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I have met this requirement for consideration.

(Note: Additional guidance regarding this requirement is available within the How to Submit Your Resume section of the USCIS Resume Requirement FAQs.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 D. No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.
3. Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) from the Federal Government within the last 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4.

This job is being posted for individuals who reside within the local commuting area* of the announced duty location on a permanent basis. All candidates must meet this requirement, with the exception of Refugee, Asylum and International Operations (RAIO) overseas employees approved for rotation OR unless on an approved exemption OR at an approved USCIS location. In these cases you can apply for any location.

Do you reside within the local commuting area* of the announced duty location on a permanent basis OR are a RAIO overseas employee approved for rotation OR on an approved exemption** OR at an approved USCIS location***?

*Local commuting area is defined as a distance that you can reasonably travel back and forth daily to the announced duty location from your permanent residence.

**An approved exemption is: military spouses, approved RA, or temporary long distance remote status (documentation required).

***An approved USCIS location is defined as pre authorized space designated for use by the program, office or directorate.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

The address listed on your USA Jobs profile or resume must show that you reside within the local commuting area of the announced duty location.
If on an approved exemption you must provide the most recent approval.
If at an approved USCIS location you must provide the original reporting instructions.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. If your status changes, requiring you to report to a physical location you may be directed to report to one of the duty locations listed in the original job opportunity announcement without relocation expenses.
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I understand this requirement.
By answering NO to this question, I am asking to be removed from further consideration for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a current USCIS employee who opted to take part of the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) and are currently in an Administrative Leave category?
 A. Yes.
 B. No.
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. GS-14 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
2. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
3. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-14. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-14 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
The following section contains a multitude of question types. If you see a radio button, you can only select one response. If you see a checkbox, you may select all that apply.
4. What statements apply to your experience developing communication strategies designed to encourage employee innovation and participation in overcoming operational challenges and policy changes.
 A. I coached and mentored employees, both formally and informally, in order to improve performance, identify leadership development opportunities, and empower individual employees to become change agents within the agency and department.
 B. I led other supervisors in fostering open feedback and communication, continued development of leadership skills, and responsibility to develop their own subordinates.
 C. I have given advice, counsel or instruction to employees on both work and administrative matters.
 D. I have taken training on strategic communication designed to create corporate visioning and culture.
 E. I have written or co-authored communication strategies for senior leaders to execute.
 F. None of the above statements describe my experience.
5. Choose the option that best describes your experience producing succinct and clear written information for program members, senior officials, and organizational leadership.
 A. I have applied numerous techniques to provide succinct and clear information regarding issues related to national security.
 B. I have directed teams or groups to provide succinct and clear information to Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 C. I have performed nuanced research to develop way to proffer information to Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 D. I have spearheaded mission specific teams in identifying definitive information to be presented to Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 E. I do not meet any of the options provided.
6. Which actions have you completed to implement strategic initiatives (e.g. enterprise-wide hiring reform, improving operating processes, developmental programs)?
 A. Participated in the implementation of a strategic initiative with organization-wide implications.
 B. Led a working group focused on implementation of an organization-wide strategic initiative.
 C. Developed a course of action (e.g., road map, project plan) for a strategic initiative.
 D. Identified risks or barriers to successful achievement for a strategic initiative.
 E. Reported on the progress of a strategic achievement to leadership (e.g., formal briefings, progress reports).
 F. Revised a course of action to meet a strategic goal.
 G. None of the above.
7. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience developing action plans to achieve goals?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to developing action plans to achieve goals.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to developing action plans to achieve goals, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I reviewed office goals for alignment with the organizational mission.
 D. I created action plans to implement and meet goals across program areas.
 E. I participated in developing action items to support establishing goals for a specific program area.
 F. I led others in the development of actions items to support specific goals in a program areas.
8. Choose all statements below that best describe the communication and briefing skills you regularly utilized in support of agency goals and leadership.
 A. I regularly communicated business processes, analyses, and strategies to key stakeholders in oral presentations.
 B. I explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations relating to analyses or improvement strategies.
 C. I briefed key stakeholders outside the organization on business analysis and process improvement plans.
 D. I defended agency positions with key stakeholders outside of the agency.
 E. I demonstrated ability to foster cooperation and consensus among key stakeholders to fostering agency plans and goals.
 F. I demonstrated ability to build consensus through collaboration from key stakeholders to obtain information, achieve results and accomplish goals.
 G. I have not performed any of the above tasks.
9. Which statement best describes your highest level of making sound, well-informed recommendations?
 A. I asked for guidance from others (peers, supervisors, trainers).
 B. I referenced established training documents and operating procedures to solve work problems.
 C. I collaborated with peers to make sound, well-informed decisions.
 D. I trained others on techniques to assist in making well-informed recommendations.
10. I have independently planned projects that resulted in organizational-wide improvements.
 A. True
 B. False
11. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience in solving complex problems in the workplace.
 A. I have solved difficult problems in the workplace by surrounding myself with others who are strong in problem solving and learning from them.
 B. I am positive in my approach and reframe the problem or issue to come up with new solutions.
 C. I have solved complex problems in the workplace by focusing on details, thinking analytically, and offering practical solutions that evaluate the potential costs, resources, and barriers to a successful solution.
 D. I have identified problems in the workplace but have no experience solving complex problems in the workplace.
12. Choose the statements that describe your experiences directing the development and implementation of long-term products or services that are consistent with the organization's strategic vision.
 A. I worked on a team that has developed and implemented products and services that are consistent with the organization’s strategic vision.
 B. I led a team of managers to develop and implement products and services that are consistent with the organization’s strategic vision.
 C. I developed and implemented products and services that align with the organization’s strategic vision.
 D. I developed strategic plans.
 E. I received training on how to develop strategic plans.
 F. I developed strategic plans that tie mission objectives to the organization vision.
 G. None of the above statements describe my experience.
13. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience responding to an issue or situation in which the resolution was not obvious?
 A. I gathered basic information about the situation and took the issue to a supervisor for help.
 B. I researched the situation to develop alternatives within guidelines and collaborated with a supervisor to resolve it.
 C. I developed a recommended solution based on my research of the situation and guidelines and sought confirmation/approval from my supervisor before proceeding.
 D. I researched and resolved the issue independently, then briefed my team or supervisor on the action taken.
 E. None of the above.
14. Select the statements that describe your experience engaging stakeholders in discussion and collaborative integration of ideas, recommendations and refinement into program/project requirements.
 A. I coordinated differing perspectives program/project requirements with stakeholders external to the agency.
 B. I provided critical input to wide reaching policy determinations impacting stakeholders, customers, and other government agencies.
 C. I independently led a team of managers on concurrent projects that required the engagement of external stakeholders in order to collaborate and devise ideas and recommendation into optimal solutions.
 D. I managed a project team comprised of a wide-variety of stakeholders with varying opinions and ideas for solutions.
 E. I worked collaboratively with internal stakeholders to identify and resolve a complex operational solution.
 F. None of the above statements describe my experience.
15. Choose the statement(s) below that reflect(s) your experience giving oral presentations in a professional setting.
 A. I have given oral presentations to external parties and high-level management.
 B. I have given oral presentations to supervisory staff.
 C. I have given oral presentations to peers and colleagues.
 D. I have given oral presentations to subordinate staff.
 E. I have never given oral presentations.
16. Which statement best describes your experience creating presentations.
 A. I have created presentations based on data provided to me
 B. I have created presentations from data I have sourced
 C. I have created presentations from data I have interpreted
 D. I have no experience creating presentations
17. Which activities have you performed concerning budgetary matters?
 A. I interpreted the impact of new and revised congressional legislation on the formulation and execution of an organization's budget.
 B. I developed new budgeting methods and techniques to forecast long-range funding needs (3 to 5 years or more into the future).
 C. I developed new budgeting methods and techniques to forecast short-range funding needs (1 to 2 years into the future).
 D. I analyzed budget requests and estimates to identify inconsistencies and imbalances.
 E. I checked budget requests for duplication and reconciled estimates with current levels of expenditures.
 F. None of the above.
18. Which tasks have you performed to track and control a budget?
 A. I entered costs into a spreadsheet or standard forms.
 B. I approved budget requests.
 C. I oversaw budget transactions and requests.
 D. I identified budget limits.
 E. I prioritized competing budget demands.
 F. None of the above.
19. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience monitoring budgets for operational activities?
 A. I have no experience, education or training related to monitoring budgets.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to monitoring budgets but do not yet have professional experience.
 C. I conducted research and analysis to provide data to upper management on the status of the budget.
 D. I independently tracked and documented expenditures to monitor the annual budget.
 E. I worked as part of a team to review annual budgets for accuracy and compiled recommendations to resolve discrepancies.
20. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience with travel programs?
 A. I have managed the office travel program for (a) group(s) (e.g., department, section, division), to include interpretation, development, and implementation of policies.
 B. I have provided advice to management on travel program-related issues and requirements to include interpretation, development, and implementation of policies.
 C. I have approved internal travel authorizations, amendments, and vouchers.
 D. I have prepared internal travel authorizations.
 E. I do not meet any of the options provided.
21. If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "pass," "satisfactory," or better?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. I am a Federal employee but have not received a performance rating.
 D. Not applicable. I am not a Federal employee.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
22. Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected