Position Title
Program Manager
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OIT-IMP-12754303-SY Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, June 30, 2025 to Monday, July 7, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former CBP employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Orlando, FL
 C. Ashburn, VA
 D. Lorton, VA
2. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-14 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
4. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
5. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
6. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
7. Do you have a current FAI FAC-P/PM Senior Level Program Management certification with DHS P/PM Specialization; or have the ability to obtain this certification within 18 months of placement into this position?  Please document current certifications in your resume for verification purposes; or provide copies of the certifications with your application.

 A. Yes, I have the certification.
 B. No, I do not have the certification, but I am able to obtain within 18 months of placement.
 C. No, I do not have the certification and would not be able to obtain with 18 months of placement.
8. This vacancy has a local commuting area requirement, as defined below:
The area surrounding the duty station by which people reasonably travel back and forth from home to work; Or
The employee's permanent duty station is located within the reasonable travel area surrounding the duty station of this vacancy; Or if applicable
For employees who are detailed or temporarily promoted (for less than 1 year) to another duty location, the permanent duty location is considered to be the duty location of record for commuting area purposes.
For employees who are detailed or temporarily promoted (for more than 1 year) to another duty location, the detailed or temporary duty location is considered to be the duty location of record for commuting area purposes.
Do you meet the local commuting area requirement?
 A. A. Yes, I meet the local commuting area requirement as defined above.
 B. B. No, I do not meet the local commuting area requirement as defined above.
9.

All newly appointed, first-time CBP supervisors are required to complete the mandatory leadership training. The Office of Training and Development will schedule eligible supervisors to attend within the first 90 days of appointment. All newly appointed, first time permanent supervisors shall attain the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to successfully perform their supervisory responsibilities by completing required leadership training in accordance with current agency policy.

NOTE: This training may be waived if previously completed.

Do you acknowledge that you have read and understand the above requirement, including current or former first time supervisors who have previously completed the mandatory training and will not be required to retake the course?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
The following question will only be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-14 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes; Examining and assessing an organization’s acquisition process, operational guidelines, and levels of effectiveness; Assisting with the planning, execution and portfolio of an acquisition program; Identifying potential program issues that arise with policy, procedures, or regulations as required and addressing them to management to ensure proper actions are being taken to resolve the issue.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
2. Do you have experience overseeing an office of senior acquisition staff?

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Indicate the extent of your experience in assigning work based on priorities, requirements of assignments, and capabilities of the employees.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had some experience in assigning work as a team lead.
 C. I have experience as a supervisor assigning work to team members and adjusting those assignments based on changing priorities and demonstrated skills of employees.
 D. I have had experience as a supervisor in assigning program and project responsibilities to subordinate staff, taking into account factors such as work priorities, requirements of assignments, and capabilities of the employees.
4. Indicate the extent of your experience providing oversight of an acquisition program applying knowledge of federal acquisition policies and processes.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have ensured proper execution of an acquisition program as a part of the daily functions of my job.
 C. I have gained experience as a team lead or branch head in providing direction and advisory oversight of a portfolio of acquisition programs.
 D. I have applied extensive experience as an authority on all matters concerning acquisition planning and execution. I provide administrative and technical oversight to senior acquisition staff regarding proper acquisition program management.
5. Indicate the extent of your experience preparing presentations and written arguments for key acquisition decision boards (e.g., Acquisition Review Boards, technical reviews).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had some experience preparing presentations and written arguments for key acquisition decision points under the guidance of a supervisor or more senior individual.
 C. I have worked as a member of a team preparing presentations and written arguments for key acquisition decisions.
 D. I have independently prepared presentations and written arguments for complex or innovative acquisition decisions.
 E. I have served as a team lead or supervisor and reviewed and approved presentations and written arguments for acquisition decisions. I have provided guidance to my team on how to prepare the presentations and written arguments based on the intended audience.
6. Indicate the extent of your experience in developing and implementing solutions to improve performance on a poor performing program or contract.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have some experience providing recommendations to coworkers or a supervisor on solutions to improve performance on a poor performing program or contract.
 C. I have developed solutions to improve performance on a poor performing program or contract and have worked with a team to implement these solutions.
 D. I have independently developed solutions to improve performance on a poor performing program or contract and have overseen the implementation of these solutions.
7. Indicate the extent of your experience in evaluating the work performance of subordinate employees.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have informally evaluated the work performance of team members and provided feedback to them.
 C. I have evaluated the work performance of subordinate employees and provided formal feedback to them as a supervisor.
 D. I have documented subordinate employee performance and formally rated them on a performance appraisal system including developing performance improvement plans as necessary.
8. Indicate the extent of your experience in analyzing acquisition problems to recommend solutions.

 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others with the analysis of acquisition problems as a member of a project team.
 C. I have independently analyzed problems specific to an acquisition program to identify existing, new, and emerging functional requirements.
 D. I have independently analyzed problems to a portfolio of acquisition programs to recommend solutions to functional requirements and overall effectiveness.
 E. I have served as a team lead or supervisor and reviewed recommended solutions from my team for problems with acquisitions programs and determined the best course of action.
9. Indicate the extent of your experience directing studies related to acquisition planning.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. Under the close guidance of others, I have developed short-range plans for an acquisition program (for example, set timelines, established milestones, identified needed resources).
 C. I have participated in the development of both short- and long-range plans for an acquisition program (for example, set timelines, established milestones, identified needed resources).
 D. I have overseen the development of plans for an acquisition program that were broad in scope or were complex, involving multiple entities.
10. Indicate the extent of your experience overseeing the analysis of an acquisition program's effectiveness.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have been a member of a team tasked with analyzing the effectiveness of an acquisition program.
 C. I have led one or more teams tasked with analyzing the effectiveness of an acquisition program.
 D. I have provided overall direction and supervision to those responsible for the analysis of the effectiveness of an acquisition program.
11. Select the choice which best describes your ability to independently plan, schedule, make adjustments, and carry out projects.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have training, but limited experience in planning, scheduling, making adjustments, and carrying out projects.
 C. I have participated in or contributed to the planning, scheduling, making adjustments, and carrying out of projects.
 D. I have independently planned, scheduled, made adjustments, and carried out projects.
 E. I have directed others in the planning, scheduling, making adjustments, and carrying out of projects.
12. Indicate the extent of your experience working in or leading work-related teams.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have participated as a team member, receiving task assignments and project goals from my supervisor or a senior program manager.
 C. I have served as a team leader, communicating task assignments and project goals to team members and monitoring progress.
 D. I have led one or more teams, ensuring that team members met project goals and deadlines and evaluated individual team member performance.
13. Indicate the extent of your experience in communicating technical acquisition information to a wide variety of audiences.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have provided basic information on acquisitions programs or related policy to individuals at various levels within and outside the organization.
 C. I have given presentations on acquisitions programs or related policy at departmental/organizational briefings and meetings, or acted as a liaison with other departments or organizations.
 D. I have been the person primarily responsible for providing advice and information on complex acquisitions programs, policies, procedures or regulations to individuals (higher and lower level) within and outside my organization.
14. Indicate the extent of your experience making clear and convincing oral presentations to individuals or groups.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have answered questions from other employees about matters that are limited to a narrow range of routine topics and answered questions from peers requesting routine facts.
 C. I have given presentations or briefing reports to a variety of individuals with a similar level of technical expertise and organizational knowledge.
 D. I have presented and explained findings and approaches, provided and justified related recommendations in an efficient and effective manner, and addressed a wide variety of individuals with various levels of technical expertise and organizational knowledge in both scheduled and ad hoc settings.
15. Indicate the extent of your experience in expressing facts and ideas in writing in a clear, convincing, and organized manner.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written short responses to routine requests for information.
 C. I have written portions of reports, information papers, and other documents.
 D. I have independently composed written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, and other complete documents based on study findings and results of analyses.
 E. I have independently composed written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, documents that recommend changes to programs and procedures for senior management, and other complete documents based on study findings and results of analyses, and I have edited reports, documents, records, or other materials completed by lower-level employees or peers to verify completeness, correctness, and consistency.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected