Position Title
SURFACE MAINTENANCE REPAIRER/MECHANIC
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MT-12776697-AR-25-260 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 1, 2025 to Saturday, August 16, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
8
10
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your resume should address each position's requirements, education and experience (general and specialized). Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.
1. Are you a current member of the Montana Army National Guard?
 A. I am currently a Permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) BARGAINING UNIT employee with the Montana Army National Guard. (Area I)
 B. I am currently a Traditional military member (Drill, ADSW, etc.) of the Montana Army National Guard, a BARGAINING UNIT Indefinite (Tenure 3) or an NTE (Tenure 0) T32 or T5 MT Army NG employee or a NON-BARGAINING UNIT (of any Tenure – 1/2/3/0) T32 or T5 MT Army NG employee; T5 applicants must be eligible for MT Army National Guard military membership and willing to join, if not currently a military member. (Area II)
 C. I am not currently a member of the Montana Army National Guard, but AM willing and eligible to join. (Area III)
 D. I am not currently a member of the Montana Army National Guard, NOR am I willing to join.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. GENERAL EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
Must have the general experience or training which demonstrates knowledge of equipment to be able to do routine jobs, simple preventative maintenance tasks, and is able to use common tools and equipment in the line of work.

Do you meet the general experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these general experiences to be considered for this position)***
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS FOR WG-08:
Must have experience or training using common hand and power tools and a small variety of test and measurement devices to make mechanical repairs; experience removing, adjusting, replacing, cleaning, and installing a variety of parts, components, and accessories; experience which demonstrates a basic understanding of mechanical, electrical, and hydraulic theory applying to vehicles; and skill to replace, fit, install, and make adjustments; experience demonstrating an understanding of the makeup and operation of the various individual systems maintained and their interrelationships; experience reading and interpreting parts lists, manufactures' repair manuals, diagrams, and electrical schematics.

Do you meet the specialized experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these specialized experiences to be considered for this position and grade)***

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS FOR WG-10:
Must have experience or training leading to a thorough knowledge of the mechanical makeup, operation, and working relationships of complex systems, assemblies, and parts for a variety of combat, tactical, commercial, special purpose vehicles, and equipment; ability to diagnose, repair, overhaul, and modify a variety of combat, tactical, commercial, special purpose vehicles, and equipment; knowledge of electrical, electronic, hydraulic, pneumatic, and other non-mechanical systems that have a functional relationship and effect on the operation of mechanical systems; knowledge of hydraulic lifting, loading, turning, and positioning systems and their mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic, electrical, and electronic controls; basic knowledge of electronics, sufficient to identify and replace defective components, such as sensors, diodes, and circuit boards; ability to repair or overhaul major components such as diesel, multi-fuel or gasoline engines, turbine engines, automatic and manual transmissions, drive line assemblies, electrical and electronic systems and accessories, fuel injection systems, and emission control systems.

Do you meet the specialized experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these specialized experiences to be considered for this position and grade)***

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Do you currently meet the rank requirement as indicated in the advertisement?
(Enlisted E1 - E9; Warrant WO1 - CW2)
 A. Yes, I currently meet the rank and military membership requirement as indicated in the advertisement.
 B. Yes, I am an employee with the MT Army National Guard that is willing and eligible for enlistment/reinstatement into the MT Army National Guard within the required rank listed.
 C. No, I am over graded in military rank listed, but I am willing & able to take a reduction.
 D. No, I am over graded in military rank listed and I am unwilling to take a reduction.
 E. No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Army National Guard; but I am willing and eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement in the MT Army National Guard to the ranks indicated.
 F. No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Army National Guard, and I am not eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement to the ranks indicated.
6. What is your current military rank or eligible rank of transfer/enlistment/reinstatement?
7. Please certify that you have accurately and truthfully represented your level of work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and/or education when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. Failure to agree to the statements below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. I certify that my answers are accurate and complete. I accept that if my supporting documentation does not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. I do not wish to certify my answers. I understand that I will not be considered for the position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected