Position Title
Emergency Management Specialist
Agency
Federal Emergency Management Agency
Announcement Number
FEMA-KR-12768981-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 23, 2025 to Friday, August 1, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. The following questions will be used to determine your eligibility for consideration under this job opportunity announcement. Please select YES to all eligibility question(s) which apply.

If you're uncertain you meet an eligibility, we suggest answering yes. Your application will only be considered under the applicable eligibilities you have selected. If you respond NO to all eligibility questions below, your application will not be considered under this announcement.

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration for EACH selected eligibility. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will not be considered.
1. Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)

Are you a current or former FEMA Stafford Act employee eligible under the Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)?

Current and former FEMA Stafford Act employees who can document 64 or more hours of paid time, per pay period, with no breaks in service* for 78 or more consecutive pay periods since August 1, 2014, are eligible to be considered for this Merit Promotion Job Opportunity Announcement. (*Note: A "break in service" is defined as 3 or more days in non-pay status, except as allowed under 5 CFR § 315.201(b)(3)(ii) for special circumstances such as military deployment, etc.).

To verify eligibility, you must submit: 
"Notice of DRRA Eligibility" provided by OCHCO.  If you believe you're eligible, but have not received your notice, please reach out to the HR Specialist listed in the announcement.
Your FEMA SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your appointment in the excepted service under the Stafford Act.  We recommend attaching a SF-50 which indicates your highest grade and step.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Current FEMA Employee

Are you a current FEMA employee who currently holds OR has previously held a permanent (not time limited) position in the competitive service?

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your permanent competitive status.  Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions.  You may need to submit more than one SF-50.  Your SF-50 must reflect:
Block 24 - Tenure:  1 - Permanent (career) or 2 - Conditional: AND
Block 34 - Position Occupied:  1 - Competitive Service
If you previously held a career or career conditional appointment, you must provide your current SF-50 and your SF-50 which shows competitive status eligibility.
Please do not submit an award SF-50, as it might not indicate your grade level and step.  
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. FEMA Employees Only Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)
Are you a current or former FEMA employee who is considered displaced or surplus (you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction in Force)?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, your most recent performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. How did you hear about this Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) job opportunity?
 A. USAJOBS
 B. FEMA's Social Media (Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Online Job board (Indeed, Zip Recruiter, etc.)
 D. FEMA.gov Careers Website
 E. FEMA Virtual Hiring Event
 F. FEMA On-Site Hiring Event
 G. College/University/Alumni Organization
 H. FEMA Employee Referral
 I. Other
2. Are you a retiree receiving a federal annuity (either military or civilian)? Or have you accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years? (Select all that apply.)
 A. Yes, I'm receiving a military annuity.
 B. Yes, I'm receiving a civilian annuity.
 C. Yes, I've received a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
 D. No, I am not receiving a federal annuity and have not accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
3. Are you a current FEMA employee?
 A. I'm a current FEMA Local Hire Employee
 B. I'm a current FEMA Reservist Employee
 C. I'm a current FEMA CORE Employee
 D. I'm a current FEMA PFT Employee
 E. I'm a current FEMA Senior Executive Service Employee
 F. I'm not a current FEMA Employee
4. Are you currently serving, or have served within the last five years, as a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) employee in the Executive Branch?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Please provide the following information regarding your political appointment(s): 1. Official Title of Position; 2. Type of Appointment (i.e. Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career SES); 3. Name of Agency; 4. Date Position began; and 5. Date Position ended. (NOTE: If you have never held a political appointment, please enter N/A.)
6. Within the past five years, have you received a buyout or payment through the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment Authority (VSIP) when separating from a federal position?
 A. No
 B. Yes, and I understand candidates who are reemployed with the federal government within five years after receiving a buyout or payment under VSIP are required to repay the entire amount of the incentive prior to their onboarding date.
7. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. The following questions will be used for consideration of your application under this job opportunity announcement. Please select yes to all Conditions of Employment that you understand and agree too. Please review your responses for accuracy. Answers cannot be changed after the announcement closes.

1. If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?

Select "Not Applicable" if this question does not apply to you.
 A. Yes
 B. No, but I have an exemption
 C. I am a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, and have NOT registered with the Selective Service System and do NOT have an exemption.
 D. Not Applicable
2. All FEMA employees are subject to 24-hour on-call in the event of an emergency and all Federal employees may be subject to emergency deployment. In the event of an emergency deployment, travel requirements may be extensive in nature (weeks to months), with little advance notice, and may require relocation to emergency sites, some of which are quite austere. The length of deployment may last anywhere from days to months, depending upon the nature of the emergency or disaster.

Every FEMA employee is considered an emergency manager and each employee has regular and recurring emergency management responsibilities, although not every position requires routine deployment to disaster sites. Your emergency management duties may vary depending on the needs of the Agency, your particular skills, and certain personal circumstances. All positions may require irregular work hours, work at locations other than the official duty station, and may include duties other than those specified in the employee's official position description.

Are you able to meet this commitment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

In order to be hired for this position, applicants must undergo and successfully pass a background investigation. This may include a review of financial issues, such as delinquency, child support and/or tax obligations, as well as certain criminal offenses and illegal use of or possession of drugs.

Are you willing to undergo a background investigation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Your responses to the questions below will be used in the evaluation of your qualifications for this position. Your resume and application materials must support the level of experience and/or education you claim in this questionnaire, if after a complete review of your application package, a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications, you may be rated ineligible for this position.
1. Grade 13: Do you have one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the GS-12 level, as described in the vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Please indicate where and when you obtained each of the specialized experience requirements listed in the Qualifications section of this Job Opportunity Announcement. Include in your response: (1) the area of specialized experience; (2) the place of employment; and, (3) the specific dates of employment the experience was gained in MM/DD/YYYY - MM/DD/YYYY format. Your response must be supported by your resume.

Example: Experience in developing and delivering presentations and training; ABC Company; 10/01/2016 - 05/15/2018.
3. From the list below, select the statement that describes the extent of your training and experience preparing and formatting data for quantitative analysis.
 A. I have had training in preparing data for quantitative analysis and am familiar with spreadsheets, relational databases, or statistical databases.
 B. I have assisted with preparing data for quantitative analysis and have experience with spreadsheets, relational databases or statistical databases.
 C. I have prepared data for quantitative analysis in a variety of formats, including spreadsheets, relational databases or statistical databases.
 D. I have led others in preparing data for quantitative analysis in a variety of formats including spreadsheets, relational databases or statistical databases.
 E. I do not have training or experience performing this task.
4. From the list below, select the statement that describes the extent of your experience performing data analysis using a variety of statistical techniques.
 A. I have carried out basic statistical techniques (e.g., mean, standard deviation). My work was reviewed by a supervisor or more experienced individual to ensure proper application of methods.
 B. I have independently carried out basic statistical techniques (e.g., mean, standard deviation).
 C. I have carried out basic (e.g., mean, standard deviation) and complex statistical techniques (e.g., linear regression, correlations, factor analysis). My work was reviewed by a supervisor or more experienced individual to ensure proper application of methods.
 D. I do not have experience performing this task.
5. From the list below, select the statement(s) that describe(s) the project management phases/tasks you have performed independently.
 A. Initiation (e.g., completion of a feasibility study; development of a business case; evaluation of risk).
 B. Planning (e.g., development of a project plan, charter, or scope; determination of budget and/or schedule, identification of resource needs).
 C. Execution (e.g., allocation of resources; organization or facilitation of a project kickoff meeting, completion of project tasks or deliverables).
 D. Monitoring or controlling (e.g., oversight and/or adjustments of budget, resources, or schedule; preparation of status reports).
 E. Closeout (e.g., communication of project completion to stakeholders, final project documentation).
 F. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
6. From the list below, select the statement(s) that describe(s) your proficiency in using geospatial modeling to conduct natural hazard risk assessments.
 A. I have carried out Hazus loss estimation studies to support the mitigation of natural hazard risk.
 B. I have conducted multi-hazard risk assessments using geospatial modeling.
 C. I have used geospatial analysis in support of floodplain mapping studies.
 D. I have used geospatial analysis in support of RiskMap projects.
 E. None of the above.
7. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your ability to collect and analyze data from a variety of sources and distribute information in a manner that facilitates information sharing between emergency management/mitigation stakeholders.
 A. I have briefed leaders from my organization with real-time updates on information that was relevant to mitigation activities.
 B. I have developed portions of reports that summarize relevant data collected for mitigation activities.
 C. I have communicated information to people outside of my organization that impacted the operations of mitigation activities.
 D. I have assisted in tailoring the mitigation relevant information communicated to audiences based on the factors that impact them directly.
 E. I have provided members of my organization/team with background and context related to mitigation decisions.
 F. None of the above.
8. From the list below, select the response(s) that describe your experience resolving inquiries related to NFIP Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs):
 A. Reviewed floodplain management documentation for compliance with the NFIP.
 B. Responded to insurance inquiries concerning NFIP regulatory mapping.
 C. Responded to Congressional inquiries concerning NFIP regulatory mapping.
 D. Provided technical assistance to stakeholders related to the Flood Insurance Rate Map update process.
 E. Resolved specific mapping-related issues raised by property owners.
 F. Resolved specific mapping-related issues raised by local or state officials.
 G. None of the above.
9. Do you have experience communicating with individuals or communities on sensitive issues relating to the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Please indicate which of the following types of interpersonal communication duties you have performed as a regular part of a job. (Check all that apply)
 A. Briefed management/customers on policy changes.
 B. Defended recommendations on controversial issues.
 C. Facilitated coordination of efforts between organizational entities.
 D. Acted as technical representative.
 E. Served on panels, committees, or task forces on technical, programmatic, and/or professional issues.
 F. Regularly consulted by others on technical, programmatic, and/or professional issues.
 G. Briefed senior or executive level managers on organizational issues.
 H. None of the above.
11. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience addressing technical customer problems.
 A. I have gathered information to assess technical customer problems.
 B. I have recommended for consideration alternative solutions for technical customer problems.
 C. I have evaluated alternative solutions to resolve technical customer problems.
 D. I have recommended a solution to resolve technical customer problems.
 E. None of the above.
12. From the list below, select the response that best reflects your experience interacting with internal and/or external customers.
 A. I have coordinated with leadership to identify information requirements.
 B. I have responded to internal questions regarding operational use of geospatial analysis.
 C. I have conducted briefings regarding the application of geospatial analysis.
 D. I have interacted with external stakeholders to obtain geospatial data.
 E. I have briefed customers on the analytic results of Geographic Information System (GIS).
 F. None of the above.
13. From the list below, select statement(s) that describe(s) your experience representing your agency or organization.
 A. I have represented my organization to external audiences.
 B. I have liaised with government representatives of various levels of authority from outside of your organization to exchange information.
 C. None of the above.
14. Do you possess experience communicating with individuals or entities on sensitive or controversial subjects?
 A. Yes
 B. No
15. Do you have experience collaborating with others as part of a team to accomplish work-related activities?
 A. Yes
 B. No
16. Select the response(s) that best describe(s) your experience interacting with people in various work situations to achieve solutions:
 A. I have served as a spokesperson for an organization.
 B. I have facilitated activities between organizational entities.
 C. I have mediated or facilitated problem resolution.
 D. I have independently conducted meetings.
 E. I have independently planned meetings.
 F. I have served on panels, committees, or task forces on technical issues.
 G. None of the above.
17. From the list below, select the response(s) that describe your project and program management experience.
 A. I have participated in assessments of program performance.
 B. I have reviewed priorities and recommended allocation of resources for multiple active projects.
 C. I have identified operational issues with projects.
 D. I have participated in managing projects through completion.
 E. I have monitored project progress against an established schedule.
 F. I have made resource decisions for projects.
 G. None of the above.
18. Please take this opportunity to review your question responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you understand this statement, have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected