Position Title
Victim Advocate and Educator (FAP VA)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
GP-25-12759737 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 8, 2025 to Tuesday, July 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Conditions of Employment
1. I am willing to obtain the required professional certification as indicated in the announcement within the allotted time.

I understand failure to do so, can result in removal from the position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Due to the nature of the work, the incumbent may serve in an "on call" duty status outside of normal work hours that includes remaining ready to perform work, carrying a cell-phone and remaining in a reasonable call back radius, staffing the 24/7 support duty line, as needed; regularly checking email to respond to crises; and/or reporting to a designated post of duty to be ready to or to perform work.

Will this possess an issue?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I am willing and able to travel away from my duty location.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. This position requires selectee to satisfactorily complete all background checks in accordance with PL 101-647 to include National Agency Check with Written Inquiries (NACI). If access to Government computer, databases, and/or systems is required in the performance of duties, the incumbent must pass SF- 86/Eligibility for Secret Clearance upon hire and periodically thereafter as a condition of employment. To obtain a Secret Clearance, selectee must be a U.S. Citizen. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. I understand this position is open to the public, worldwide but does not offer any relocation benefits or assistance. If I currently reside outside of the local commuting area, I am willing to relocate at my own expense within 30-45 days of receiving a final offer.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a FAP Victim Advocate and Educator position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
1. Select the one statement below that best describes your education and/or experience to meet the basic requirement for a position in the Social Science Series, 0101.
 A. I have a 4-year degree in behavioral or social science; or related disciplines appropriate to the position (Must submit transcript).
 B. I have a combination of education and experience that provided me with knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field. (Must submit transcript).
 C. I have four years of appropriate experience that demonstrated that I have acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field. (This must be demonstrated in your resume).
 D. My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statements.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. Do you possess a bachelor's degree from an accredited university or college in any of the following disciplines (Social work, Psychology, Marriage, Family, and Child Counseling, or Counseling or Behavioral Science)? Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position.
And
Two (2) years of experience in a family and children's services public agency or family and children's services community organization, 1 year of which is in prevention, intervention, or treatment of child abuse and domestic abuse.
And
Two (2) years of experience in assisting and providing advocacy services to victims of domestic abuse or sexual assault?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This question will be used to determine your specialized experience. Do you possess at least three years of specialized experience in assisting and providing advocacy services to adult and child victims of domestic abuse?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected