Position Title
FOIA Assistant (OA)
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12774324-NRC-IMP-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 31, 2025 to Monday, August 11, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current USCIS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. The Reemployment Priority List (RPL) is the mechanism DHS uses to give reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees separated by reduction-in-force (RIF), or fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a current USCIS employee?  If so, have you met all of the following criteria?
Registered for the RPL program, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupied a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current/most recent performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent, and
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606
For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, visit 5 CFR 330 Subpart B.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
My SF-50 showing Separation - RIF. If that is not available yet, then official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who is in a permanent position that is in the competitive service (see block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type)?

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of our SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. I acknowledge the following conditions if I choose to submit my resume through the USAJOBS Resume Builder:
I understand that resumes submitted through USAJOBS Resume Builder are converted to a PDF format when they are transmitted to USA Staffing from the USAJOBS applicant interface and additional spaces/page gaps are added to resumes during the Resume Builder conversion process;
Based on the above conditions, I understand that USCIS strongly encourages me to save my resume to a PDF document and upload the PDF document instead of submitting my resume created through Resume Builder;
I understand that USCIS' human resources will only review the first 5 pages of my resume to determine eligibility/qualifications for this position;
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I have met this requirement for consideration.

(Note: Additional guidance regarding this requirement is available within the How to Submit Your Resume section of the USCIS Resume Requirement FAQs.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 D. No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.
3.

This job is being posted for individuals who reside within the local commuting area* of the announced duty location on a permanent basis. All candidates must meet this requirement, with the exception of Refugee, Asylum and International Operations (RAIO) overseas employees approved for rotation OR unless on an approved exemption OR at an approved USCIS location. In these cases you can apply for any location.

Do you reside within the local commuting area* of the announced duty location on a permanent basis OR are a RAIO overseas employee approved for rotation OR on an approved exemption** OR at an approved USCIS location***?

*Local commuting area is defined as a distance that you can reasonably travel back and forth daily to the announced duty location from your permanent residence.

**An approved exemption is: military spouses, approved RA, or temporary long distance remote status (documentation required).

***An approved USCIS location is defined as pre authorized space designated for use by the program, office or directorate.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

The address listed on your USA Jobs profile or resume must show that you reside within the local commuting area of the announced duty location.
If on an approved exemption you must provide the most recent approval.
If at an approved USCIS location you must provide the original reporting instructions.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. If your status changes, requiring you to report to a physical location you may be directed to report to one of the duty locations listed in the original job opportunity announcement without relocation expenses.
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I understand this requirement.
By answering NO to this question, I am asking to be removed from further consideration for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current USCIS employee who opted to take part of the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) and are currently in an Administrative Leave category?
 A. Yes.
 B. No.
Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Typing Certification: Can you type at least 40 words per minute? You can self-certify by submitting a statement that you can type this speed.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. General Office Skills: Do you possess knowledge of general office automation software, practices, and procedures?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. GS-07 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-06 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
4. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.

5. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-07. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-06 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-06 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-06 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-07 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., VRA, Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
The following section contains a multitude of question types. If you see a radio button, you can only select one response. If you see a checkbox, you may select all that apply.

6. Which sources of information have you independently researched and interpreted to embrace a course of action related to a case?
 A. Sections of law and regulations
 B. Standard Operating Procedures
 C. References and guidance contained in legislative history
 D. Precedent decisions
 E. International treaties
 F. None of the above
7. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience related to using Microsoft Excel?
 A. I applied basic sorting filters to previously created, reoccurring reports.
 B. I applied conditional formatting to previously created, reoccurring reports.
 C. I applied advanced formulas (e.g. IF and VLOOKUP) to previously created, reoccurring reports.
 D. I created custom pivot tables and applied them to recurring reports.
 E. I wrote Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) code macros for recurring reports that are used by others.
 F. None of the above.
8. Which activities have you performed to assess the accuracy of case file contents?
 A. Identified missing information/documentation
 B. Identified inconsistencies in case file contents
 C. Identified any potential fraudulent documentation
 D. Ensured documentation was legible
 E. Ensured copies of all required correspondence were in the file
 F. Ensured all Personal Identifiable Information (PII) was properly stored
 G. Ensured there were no unnecessary PII in case file
 H. None of the above
9. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience reviewing case file documents to determine the current status?
 A. I analyzed systems to ensure that they had current case status.
 B. I updated systems and databases to perform case management.
 C. I reviewed and tracked case files to ensure proper resolution of issues, problems, and errors in order to determine correct status.
 D. I researched, collected, and analyzed data in order to prepare case status reports
 E. I have no experience, training, or education related to determining case file status.
 F. I completed education and/or training related to case file status determinations, but do not have professional experience.
10. What is your highest level of experience determining when a decision can be made with all available evidence and when it is necessary to refer the case to another branch?
 A. I analyzed files and provided explanations of case status when prompted.
 B. I provided information to third parties and evaluated all avenues to determine and/or correct issues.
 C. I prepared case files/records and related documents to be routed to other offices.
 D. I independently researched questions and provided in-depth guidance when referring incomplete cases.
 E. I have no experience, training, or education related to making this type of determination.
 F. I completed education and/or training related to making this kind of determination, but do not have professional experience.
11. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience producing official records for legal representation?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to producing official records.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to producing official records, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I prepared adjudication notices such as denial and approval notices, request for information, and notices of intent to deny.
 D. I responded to Congressional, inter-agency, or intra-agency legal inquiries in written or memo format.
 E. I wrote responses or testimony for Congressional, interagency, or intra-agency inquiries based on knowledge of federal laws, rules, regulations, policies, and procedures.
12. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience performing compliance assessments on immigration-related documents?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to compliance assessments of immigration-related documents.
 B. I have had education and/or training related to compliance assessments of immigration-related documents but do not have professional experience.
 C. I researched applicable immigration-related case law, personal details, federal regulations, and immigration documents (Certificate of Naturalization, Lawful Permanent Resident Card, I94) to perform compliance assessments.
 D. I made recommendations to resolve cases related to immigration status as part of compliance assessments.
 E. I assisted peers resolve cases by gathering information from multiple systems and eliciting details from colleagues of differing technical expertise.
13. Select the activities you have performed related to ensuring the accuracy of data related to the adjudications of benefits.
 A. Reviewed applications/petitions for completeness.
 B. Verified accuracy of entered data
 C. Updated database with new or revised information.
 D. Created queries to facilitate data review.
 E. Conducted database searches to identify potential issues (i.e., data discrepancies).
 F. None of the above.
14. Which actions have you taken to perform security checks using government systems?
 A. Conducted file searches for aliases
 B. Conducted file searches for dates of birth
 C. Conducted file searches for criminal behavior
 D. Conducted file searches for fraud or suspected fraud
 E. Conducted file searches for misrepresentation of identity
 F. Reported submissions of fraudulent or altered documents
 G. Identified files with national security threats and public safety issues
 H. Ensured records and property were maintained and destroyed in accordance with security requirements.
 I. None of the above.
15. Select the tasks you have performed to maintain information in record tracking systems.
 A. I analyzed various systems and databases to ensure the information was accurate.
 B. I updated records within electronic systems and databases.
 C. I provided feedback to system developers and system personnel to improve efficiency of record management.
 D. I implemented protocols to accurately maintain a record tracking system.
 E. None of the above.
16. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience solving problems (e.g., navigating deviations from standard work processes)?
 A. I asked for guidance from others (e.g., peers, supervisors, trainers) to solve work problems.
 B. I referenced established training documents and operating procedures to solve work problems.
 C. I collaborated with peers to develop alternative options to solve a problem.
 D. I trained others on how to resolve problems (e.g., adapt to deviations) in their work.
 E. I completed education and/or training in problem solving but don't have professional experience.
 F. None of the above.
17. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience creating correspondence (e.g., customer notifications, response to inquiries)?
 A. I created correspondence following guidance (e.g., template, explicit directions from a superior).
 B. I created correspondence without guidance that was reviewed and approved before dissemination.
 C. I independently created correspondence that did not require higher-level review or approval.
 D. I trained others in proper creation of correspondence.
 E. I completed education and/or training related to creating correspondence, but do not have professional experience.
 F. I have no experience, training, or education creating correspondence.
18. Which activities have you performed to verify the accuracy of information on immigration benefit application forms?
 A. I compared application form information to Forms of Identification issued by foreign governments (e.g., passport, entry documentation).
 B. I compared application form information to existing database information.
 C. I checked application forms for grammatical errors.
 D. None of the above.
19. Which administrative/clerical activities have you performed?
 A. I managed calendars for others (e.g., tracked appointments, reported time).
 B. I established a network of peers to keep office functions flowing and maintain productivity.
 C. I liaised with individuals or offices to perform assigned administrative activities.
 D. I directed management to relevant information and resources (e.g., Human Resources, Budget Tracking, Equal Opportunity, and Procurement).
 E. I organized data using office software, such as creating spreadsheets and word documents, as directed by a superior.
 F. None of the above.
20. Which activities have you performed to assess the accuracy of case file contents?
 A. Reviewed applications/petitions for completeness
 B. Verified accuracy of entered data
 C. Updated databases with new/revised information
 D. Created queries to facilitate data review
 E. Conducted database searches to identify potential fraud
 F. Identified inconsistencies in case file contents
 G. Prepared follow up activities for packets that were identified as incomplete
 H. None of the above
21. Select the Federal laws, regulations and polices related to national security and personnel security that you have applied to complete your work assignments.
 A. Executive Order 10450
 B. Executive Order 12958
 C. Executive Order 12968
 D. 5 CFR 731: Suitability
 E. 5 CFR 732: National Security Positions
 F. The Privacy Act
 G. The Freedom of Information Act
 H. Department or Agency Policy and Directives
 I. Interagency Security Committee (ISC) standards, policies, and best practices
 J. None of the above
22. Which administrative/clerical activities have you performed to support a program?
 A. I provided customer support for the program.
 B. I conducted courier services.
 C. I processed documents and fees.
 D. I managed data in information systems or databases.
 E. I prescreened applications for accuracy and completeness.
 F. I initiated security checks/background checks.
 G. I conducted file searches to check for instances of fraud or suspected fraud.
 H. I created physical and electronic case files
 I. I performed case file audits.
 J. None of the above.
23. Select the audiences for whom you have prepared customer feedback presentations (e.g., briefings).
 A. Colleagues
 B. Team leads/Program Managers
 C. First-line Supervisors
 D. Senior-level officials
 E. External partners
 F. None of the above
24. I have worked in a position that required me to protect sensitive or privacy related information from unauthorized disclosure.
 A. True
 B. False
25. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience conducting sensitive file reviews related to US Citizenship and Immigration Services?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to immigration file reviews.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to immigration file reviews, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I answered case status inquiries from the public (e.g., applicants, attorneys, schools, businesses).
 D. I explained citizenship and immigration procedures and requirements to stakeholders.
 E. I acted as a liaison for citizenship and immigration customers and their advocates regarding their requests for benefits.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
26. Have you analyzed sensitive documents and reconciled conflicting opinions concerning their suitability for disclosure?
 A. Yes
 B. No
27. Select the activities you have performed to ensure the data integrity of electronic systems.
 A. Reviewed electronic forms (i.e., Immigration Benefits, Personnel Requests) for completeness
 B. Verified accuracy of data entered
 C. Updated databases with new/revised information (i.e., templates, additional steps in current process)
 D. Created queries to facilitate data review
 E. Conducted database searches to identify potential issues
 F. None of the above
28. Select the activities you have performed to ensure the integrity of case files.
 A. I maintained a file organization processes to ensure that files were accounted for on a daily basis.
 B. I managed a tracking database containing a process for checking-out and checking-in files.
 C. I identified missing files through conducting inventory and reconstructed the file to ensure all contents were restored.
 D. I located missing files and put them back where they belonged.
 E. I created temporary folders while organizing or consolidating files.
 F. None of the above.
29. I have been responsible for storing sensitive documents (e.g., documents with Personally Identifying Information (PII)) in accordance with my organization's policies.
 A. True
 B. False
30. When guidance is ambiguous or not straight forward, which course of action do you take?
 A. Ask my peer or supervisor for assistance.
 B. Research all available guidance and make an independent, logical decision.
 C. Stop working on the assignment to allow time to think about it more.
 D. Take my best guess and move on to the next assignment.
31. Which statement best describes your ability to adapt to changing work assignments?
 A. I perform my best having consistent work assignments
 B. I perform my best having a variety of work assignments.
 C. I perform my best having mostly consistent work assignments and some variety.
 D. I find it hard to remain focused when doing the same assignment over and over.
32. Which statement best describes your highest level of responding to tasks and requests for information?
 A. Within my team to my supervisor.
 B. Within my unit to the unit manager.
 C. Within my office to the director.
 D. Within my organization to other partners or constituents.
 E. Outside of my organization with the public, partners, or constituents.
33. Which statement best describes your reaction when work processes frequently change?
 A. I quickly adapt when work processes frequently change and assist others.
 B. I don’t like it when work processes frequently change but I will adapt accordingly.
 C. I don't mind when my work processes frequently change and I remain positive.
 D. I struggle with regaining my momentum when work processes frequently change and have difficulty adapting to the change.
34. Select the ways in which you demonstrate being open and courteous to opinions from people with varied backgrounds.
 A. I take the time to listen to different opinions.
 B. I respect others opinions even if I disagree.
 C. I ask follow up questions to help me further understand others opinions.
 D. I can participate in courteous debate.
 E. I always know that my opinion is the correct opinion.
 F. None of the above
35. Select the ways in which you develop and maintain collaborative working relationships with others to resolve conflicts in a positive manner.
 A. Find commonality to all sides as a starting point for shared outcome.
 B. Actively listen and brainstorm together.
 C. Be respectful to differing opinions.
 D. Recognize the barriers to the common goal.
 E. Identify solutions all sides can agree to.
 F. None of the above.
36. Which statement best describes your highest level of making sound, well-informed recommendations?
 A. I asked for guidance from others (peers, supervisors, trainers).
 B. I referenced established training documents and operating procedures to solve work problems.
 C. I collaborated with peers to make sound, well-informed decisions.
 D. I trained others on techniques to assist in making well-informed recommendations.
37. If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "pass," "satisfactory," or better?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. I am a Federal employee but have not received a performance rating.
 D. Not applicable. I am not a Federal employee.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
38. Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected