Position Title
Program Analysis Officer (Senior Operations and Planning Advisor)
Agency
Executive Office for Immigration Review
Announcement Number
IMP-12813089-26-TNN Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, October 7, 2025 to Monday, October 20, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service AND can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements?
The grade level or at least one of the grade levels I am applying for is higher than I have previously held or currently hold? 
The stated full performance level of this position is at a higher grade level than any of my previous or current position's stated full performance level(s)?
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions. You may need to submit more than one SF-50. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must also reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1). 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and you have held a permanent position at the same or higher grade level as this position with the same or higher promotion potential?

OR

Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and you have held the full performance level of this position on a permanent basis?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions. You may need to submit more than one SF-50.Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must also reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


5.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


6.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


7.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


8.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


9.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Phoenix Immigration Court, Phoenix, AZ
 B. Tucson Immigration Court, Tucson, AZ
 C. Concord Immigration Court, Concord, CA
 D. Imperial Immigration Court, Imperial, CA
 E. Los Angeles (North) Immigration Court, Los Angeles, CA
 F. Los Angeles (West) Immigration Court, Los Angeles, CA
 G. Sacramento Immigration Court, Sacramento, CA
 H. San Diego Immigration Court, San Diego County, CA
 I. San Francisco Immigration Court, San Francisco, CA
 J. Santa Ana Immigration Court, Santa Ana, CA
 K. Van Nuys Immigration Court, Van Nuys, CA
 L. Denver Immigration Court, Denver, CO
 M. Hartford Immigration Court, Hartford, CT
 N. Miami Immigration Court, Miami, FL
 O. Orlando Immigration Court, Orlando, FL
 P. Atlanta Immigration Court (W. Peachtree Street), Atlanta, GA
 Q. Chicago Immigration Court, Chicago, IL
 R. Indianapolis Immigration Court, Indianapolis, IN
 S. Louisville Immigration Court, Louisville, KY
 T. Baton Rouge Immigration Court, Baton Rouge, LA
 U. New Orleans Immigration Court, New Orleans, LA
 V. Baltimore Immigration Court, Baltimore, MD
 W. Hyattsville Immigration Court, Hyattsville, MD
 X. Boston Immigration Court, Boston, MA
 Y. Chelmsford Immigration Court, Chelmsford, MA
 Z. Detroit Immigration Court, Detroit, MI
 AA. Fort Snelling Immigration Court, Fort Snelling, MN
 AB. Kansas City Immigration Court, Kansas City, MO
 AC. Omaha Immigration Court, Omaha, NE
 AD. Las Vegas Immigration Court, Las Vegas, NV
 AE. Newark Immigration Court, Newark, NJ
 AF. Buffalo Immigration Court, Buffalo, NY
 AG. New York (Broadway) Immigration Court, New York, NY
 AH. New York (Federal Plaza) Immigration Court, New York County, NY
 AI. New York (Varick) Immigration Court, New York Mills, NY
 AJ. Charlotte Immigration Court, Charlotte, NC
 AK. Cleveland Immigration Court, Cleveland, OH
 AL. Portland Immigration Court, Portland, OR
 AM. Philadelphia Immigration Court, Philadelphia, PA
 AN. Memphis Immigration Court, Memphis, TN
 AO. Dallas Immigration Court, Dallas County, TX
 AP. El Paso Immigration Court, El Paso, TX
 AQ. Fort Worth IAC Immigration Court, Fort Worth, TX
 AR. Harlingen Immigration Court, Harlingen, TX
 AS. Houston Immigration Court (Jefferson Street), Houston, TX
 AT. Houston Immigration Court (Greenspoint Park), Houston, TX
 AU. Houston Immigration Court (South Gessner Road), Houston, TX
 AV. Laredo Immigration Court, Laredo, TX
 AW. San Antonio Immigration Court, San Antonio, TX
 AX. Salt Lake City Immigration Court, West Valley City, UT
 AY. Annandale Immigration Court, Annandale, VA
 AZ. Falls Church IAC Immigration Court, Falls Church, VA
 BA. Richmond IAC Immigration Court, Richmond, VA
 BB. Sterling Immigration Court, Sterling, VA
 BC. Seattle Immigration Court, Seattle, WA


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Program Analysis Officer (Senior Operations and Planning Advisor), GS-0343-15 position with the Federal government.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the ONE response that BEST describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform as a GS-15, Program Analysis Officer (Senior Operations and Planning Advisor).

 I have at least one or more full-time years (12 months) of specialized work experience equivalent to at least the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service: 1) Providing analytic and technical support for a variety of organizational initiatives and administrative programs; 2) Leading efforts in developing, planning, implementing and improving administrative management, processes and procedures, AND 3) developing and implementing approaches, techniques, or methodologies to improve program operations and correct deficiencies (Your resume must CLEARLY demonstrate this experience if you select this option)
 I do not have the experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙