Position Title
Child Development Center Director - Small or Medium CDC - Capodichino
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
EUR25-185R Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 29, 2025 to Monday, October 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the CYP Child Development Center Director position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you.
 I have a 4-year degree in Early Childhood Education, Child Development, Elementary Education, Special Education, Home Economics (early childhood emphasis) or related field of study AND 3 years of full time experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have a Master's degree in a related field of study AND minimum of 1 year of professional experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have a combination of education and experience (e.g., courses equivalent to a major in a field [24 higher level semester hours] appropriate to the position [see above]) plus appropriate experience or additional course work that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of the 4-year course of study described above AND 3 years of full time experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have none of the above.


2.
What is your highest level of education?
 I have a Master’s degree in Early Childhood Education (ECE), Child Development, Elementary Education, Special Education, Home Economics (early childhood emphasis), or a related field of study that included a major study in education.
 I have a Bachelor’s degree in ECE, Child Development, Elementary Education, Special Education, Home Economics (early childhood emphasis), or a related field of study that included a major study in education.
 I do not have a degree, but I have a combination of education and experience.
 I have none of the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have in managing and designing complex child and youth development programs, which may include safety, security, disease prevention, employee training, developmentally appropriate activities, parent involvement, and facility management?
 I have 3+ years of experience in managing and designing child development programs, as described above, at the director level in a Department of Defense (DoD) Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in managing and designing child development programs, as described above, at the director level in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in managing and designing child development programs, as described above, at the director level in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in managing and designing child development programs.
 I have 3+ years of experience in managing and designing child development programs, as described above, at the director level in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have no experience in the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing as it pertains to a child and youth program?
 have 3+ years of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing in a DoD Child and Youth Program
 I have 3+ years of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in financial management.
 I have no experience in the above.


5.
How many years of supervisory experience do you have?
 I have 10+ years of supervisory experience.
 I have 5 to 10 years of supervisory experience.
 I have 1 to 5 years of supervisory experience.
 I have less than 1 year of supervisory experience.
 I have no supervisory experience.


6.
What size is the DoD Child Development Center (CDC) program you have experience in managing?
 I have experience managing a large DoD CDC program (200 children and above).
 I have experience managing a medium DoD CDC program (101 to 199 children).
 I have experience managing a small DoD CDC program (up to 100 children).
 I have no experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙