Position Title
AIRCRAFT MECHANIC
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
KY-12743833-AF-25-129 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, June 3, 2025 to Monday, July 7, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
AOC
1. What is your current military grade?
--Select-- 
--Select--
E-1
E-2
E-3
E-4
E-5
E-6
E-7
E-8
E-9
W-1
W-2
W-3
W-4
W-5
O-1
O-2
O-3
O-4
O-5
O-6
O-7
O-8
2. Are you a current member of the Kentucky Air National Guard?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Please answer all questions to the best of your knowledge and ability.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you have experience removing and replacing aircraft parts, accessories, and components, and making adjustments and settings according to established specifications?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you have 18 months experience installing, adjusting, aligning, troubleshooting and functionally testing the various major and minor
mechanical and pneudraulic systems on an aircraft during overhaul or modification?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you have 18 months experience coordinating the work of other mechanics, and scheduling maintenance to ensure completion of critical actions and optimum workflow?

 A. Yes
 B. No
For each technical area below, select the response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and demonstrated capability.
4. Do you have 18 months experience to instruct lower graded mechanics, military and other personnel in the disassembly and re-assembly of crash damaged engines, transmissions, gearboxes, hydraulic components, and fuel controls sufficient for the exhibit to be returned to its shipping container?
 A. I have no knowledge or demonstrated capability in this technical area.
 B. I can demonstrate an understanding of the fundamental concepts involved in this technical area. I will require formal training and close supervision to perform this work.
 C. I can demonstrate an understanding of some advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of working on most projects in this technical area with moderate assistance. I am able to perform this work with minimal supervision.
 D. I can demonstrate an understanding of many advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of mentoring others on some projects in this technical area. I am able to perform this work without supervision except in the most complex situations.
 E. I can demonstrate an understanding of most advanced concepts within this technical area. I am considered an expert in the field and am frequently consulted by others about this technical area. I am responsible for mentoring and training others in this technical area.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provide in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application or its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001): my eligibilities may be canceled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 C.F.R Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected