Position Title
SOCIAL WORKER
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-12701917-AF-T525-013 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 18, 2025 to Friday, August 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. All on-board federal employees/technicians within the state for which you are applying (Title 32 and Title 5, Permanent and Excepted Indefinite).  Are you a current on-board federal employee or technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1, 2,or 3).
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Current Army M-Day and current Air DSG members within the state for which you are applying.  Are you a current Army M-Day or current Air DSG member within the state for which this position is being advertised?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Current nationwide military/prior members willing and eligible to become National Guard members.  Are you a current military or prior member willing and eligible to become a National Guard member?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. US Citizens.  Are you a US Citizen?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technicians: I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C. This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation.

NOTE 1: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the "Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist" and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.

NOTE 2: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible: I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years. I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions at my retained grade, within my local commuting area.

NOTE 1: If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the "Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist" and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade.

NOTE 2: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted or declined a job offer for permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Priority Placement Program DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement: I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity. I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation.

NOTE 1: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the "Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist" and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability.

NOTE 2: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Employment Criteria
1. Are you currently a United States Citizen?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you claiming Veterans Preference based on a disability? If so, do you require reasonable accommodation?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. I do not wish to disclose this information
3. From the categories below, please select your current status.
 A. AOC A: NG employees at the 193rd Special Operations Wing
 B. AOC B: NG employees in the 193 Special Operations Wing (This includes 193rd RSG, 193rd AOG, 211th EIS, 271st CCS, 201st RHS, 112th ACS, 203rd Weather Flight, 193rd SOW Det 1, 148th ASOS, PA ANG HQ DET 1)
 C. AOC C: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 D. AOC D: All Service Members of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 E. AOC E: Federal Employees in an Agency outside of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 F. AOC F: U.S. Citizen Applicants
Assessment 1
1. Do you have a Master's degree in social work from an institution accredited by the Council on Social Work Education? (Applicant must submit transcripts)
 A. Yes, I do.
 B. No, I do not.
2. Do you have a current, unrestricted State license to practice clinical social work independently? (Applicant must submit license)
 A. Yes, I do.
 B. No, I do not.
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
3. Do you have at least 36 months experience in clinical social work assignments? This experience demonstrates particular competencies of knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Must have specialized experience in professional social work that includes interviewing people to establish the nature and extent of their problems, helping them work-out plans for improving the situation, providing assistance and services, referring them to community resources and other organizations as indicated, and assisting them to understand and modify their own patterns of behavior when appropriate. Except as stated above, no other substitution of education for specialized experience is allowed.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
4. Are you related to anyone in this agency?
 A. Yes, I have a relative employed with this agency.
 B. No. I am not related to anyone in this agency.
5. Have you been separated for cause from a federal position?
 A. Yes, I have.
 B. No, I haven't.
6. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, my answers are true, correct, complete, and made in good faith.
 A. Yes.
 B. No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected