Position Title
WRITER EDITOR
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
USBP-IMP-12768280-ASA Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 4, 2025 to Friday, August 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. In addition to the application and application questionnaire, this position requires a USA Hire online assessment, which measures critical general competencies required to perform the job. If you are required to take the USA Hire assessment, you will be emailed a unique URL to access the USA Hire system. The USA Hire online assessment must be completed within 48 hours, following the close of this announcement. You will have the opportunity to request a testing accommodation for the assessment should you have a disability covered under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). See the How to Apply and Next Steps within the Job Opportunity Announcement for additional details.

Do you acknowledge that you may be required to take an additional online USA Hire assessment, via an email link sent to you after completion of this application, and that failure to complete any portion of the assessment will remove your application from consideration?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that by not taking the additional required USA Hire assessment that I will be removed from further consideration.
2. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
4. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
5. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
6. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
Assessment 1
The following question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-12 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes: Preparing written responses to congressional inquiries on complex issues related to the mission, policies, programs, and Border Patrol initiatives; Writing executive-level speeches tailored to military, civilian, or public audiences, both internal and external to the agency, depending on the event and the identified objectives; Examining the content of documents and organizes the material structurally in terms of the order of sentences, paragraphs, sections, and findings, to improve the presentation; Gathering, developing, and checking the accuracy of information from a wide range of sources.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
2. Indicate the extent of your experience writing and editing reports.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written and edited reports for dissemination within my organization.
 C. I have written and edited complex reports for dissemination within my organization and for external stakeholders, for example, State/local government, the general public, and private sector organizations.
 D. I have supervised others in writing and editing complex reports for dissemination within my organization and to external stakeholders (for example, the general public, State/local government, or members of Congress).
3. Indicate the extent of your experience editing articles and correspondence in a variety of styles (e.g., for internal agency publications, for the general public, for the trade community, etc.).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have experience editing articles and correspondence in a style suited to internal organizational communications.
 C. I have experience editing articles and correspondence in styles suited to internal organizational communications and the general public.
 D. I have experience editing articles and correspondences in styles suited to internal organizational communications, the general public, and the trade community. Others seek me out due to my expertise in identifying and applying the appropriate style for different audiences.
4. Do you have experience maintaining awareness of current government writing and reporting style and format requirements?

 A. YES
 B. NO
5. Indicate the extent of your experience ensuring written correspondence adheres to organizational and style requirements.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in my immediate work unit to ensure written correspondence adheres to organizational and style requirements.
 C. I have provided assistance to points of contact within and outside my work unit to ensure written correspondence adheres to organizational and style requirements.
 D. I am considered a subject matter expert on organizational and style requirements for written correspondence. Others seek me out due to my expertise in ensuring written correspondence adheres to organizational and style requirements.
6. Indicate the extent of your experience editing correspondence for use by a variety of stakeholders (for example, component offices).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have proofread documents, correspondence, or forms and identified typographical or grammatical errors.
 C. I have reviewed and edited documents and correspondence for proper content, format, grammar, spelling, typographical errors, logical sequencing of information, and conformity with an organization's technical writing style and standards.
 D. I have reviewed and edited complex documents and correspondence for grammar, spelling, logical sequencing of information, and conciseness, and I have verified completeness, correctness, and consistency.
 E. I have reviewed and edited complex documents and correspondence for grammar, spelling, logical sequencing of information, and conciseness, and I have verified completeness, correctness, and consistency. As a part of my review process, I have provided employees with detailed editorial feedback, highlighting strengths and areas for improvement.
7. Indicate the extent of your experience preparing personal correspondence (for example, thank-you notes, commendation letters, special letters, response letters) for senior-level executives.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have prepared personal correspondence for senior-level executives under close supervision.
 C. I have independently prepared personal correspondence for senior-level executives.
 D. I have had the ultimate responsibility of overseeing the preparation of personal correspondence for senior-level executives.
8. Indicate the extent of your experience examining documents produced by organizational divisions or other components before the final draft is submitted to senior leadership.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have served as an intermediate step in the correspondence review process before documents produced by organizational divisions or other components were submitted to senior leadership.
 C. I have had the ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the documents produced by organizational divisions or other components were in compliance with correspondence standards before the final draft was submitted to senior leadership.
9. Indicate the extent of your experience using correspondence tracking systems (for example, Internet Quarum, eCase, Front Rowe, OpenText).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had experience using an automated correspondence tracking system to input information into a database.
 C. I have had experience using an automated correspondence tracking system to input and extract information from multiple databases.
 D. I have had extensive experience using an automated correspondence tracking system to input and extract information from multiple databases, and to provide reports to managers.
 E. I have had extensive experience using an automated correspondence tracking system to input and extract information from multiple databases, and to provide reports to managers. I have also trained others in the use of automated correspondence tracking systems.
10. Indicate the extent to which you have experience in making rapid revisions to written content under time pressure.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have made minor revisions to existing written content of a routine nature in order to organize, balance, and apply a consistent sense of style, grammar, and flow.
 C. I have rapidly made substantial revisions to existing written content under time pressure in order to organize, balance, and apply a consistent sense of style, grammar, and flow.
 D. I have rapidly made major revisions to high-level correspondence or documents under extreme time pressure in order to organize, balance, and apply a consistent sense of style, grammar, and flow.
11. Indicate the extent of your experience logging, tracking, and managing daily tasks so that all correspondence is completed in a timely manner.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have monitored a single piece of correspondence for a component office, branch, or division, ensuring the correspondence was completed in a timely manner.
 C. I have monitored multiple sets of correspondence for a component office, branch, or division, ensuring all correspondence was completed in a timely manner.
 D. I have monitored the correspondence-related work of individuals and/or working groups to ensure all correspondence for a component office, branch, or division was completed in a timely manner.
12. Do you have experience processing inter-office clearances?

 A. YES
 B. NO
13. Do you have experience reviewing, editing, and re-writing Congressional correspondence?

 A. YES
 B. NO
14. Indicate the extent of your experience preparing data for press or other stakeholders, for example, members of Congress, the general public, or State/local government.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted in the preparation of data for the press or other stakeholders, for example, members of Congress, the general public, or State/local government.
 C. I have independently prepared data for the press or other stakeholders, for example, members of Congress, the general public, or State/local government.
 D. I have overseen the preparation of data for the press or other stakeholders, for example, members of Congress, the general public, or State/local government.
15. Indicate the extent to which you have experience in communicating orally with various levels of employees in order to obtain and provide information.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have communicated with members of my work unit in order to obtain or verify information or to provide routine information.
 C. I have communicated with supervisors, managers, or office personnel to notify them of decisions, problems, or further actions needed, or to explain the organization's programs or services.
 D. I have given oral presentations at departmental/organizational briefings and meetings to convey information on program activities or to describe the impact of new organizational policies on operational responsibilities.
 E. I have represented my organization in meetings and dealings with other groups or organizations for the purpose of proposing and gaining acceptance of ideas and explaining or coordinating views regarding organizational policies, procedures, and goals.
16. Indicate the extent of your experience establishing and maintaining effective working relationships with stakeholders who are internal and external to the agency.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have maintained relationships with individuals in my work group or office, primarily in the completion of my regular job duties or in my response to specific inquiries.
 C. I have maintained relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group and office to exchange information, to maintain compliance with new laws, to resolve problems, or to participate in team projects.
 D. I have maintained extensive relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group, office, and organization to resolve problems, to plan team projects, or to establish long-term working relationships.
17. Select the choice that best describes your ability to collaborate with others to streamline internal correspondence processes.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have conferred with others in my work unit on an individual basis about internal correspondence processes.
 C. I have collaborated with others within my organization to update and improve existing internal correspondence processes.
 D. I have led working groups within my organization to streamline existing internal correspondence processes and create new, more effective and efficient internal correspondence processes.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected