Position Title
It Specialist (Custspt)
Agency
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Information and Technology
Announcement Number
EUS-25-JB-12787614 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 22, 2025 to Tuesday, August 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position you will be separated from; AND,
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; AND, 
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences

Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:

Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.

1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.
1. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 A. YES
 B. NO
Time-In-Grade: This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-11. For the GS-11 level, you must have completed at least 52 weeks at the next lower grade, GS-09. Please select the one response that supports the grade level TIG requirements you meet. (Please review all options before selecting a response)
2. Select the response below that most accurately describes you:

 A. I have one year of time-in-grade at the GS-09 grade level.
 B. The time-in-grade requirement does not apply to me (I have not held a GS position in the past 52 weeks)
 C. I am a current federal employee, but I do not meet the time-in-grade requirement as specified above.
Basic Requirement: This standard allows eligibility through meeting either the education or experience requirement. Carefully read the following and select ONE statement below that best describes how your experience/education meets the basic requirements for an INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST (CUSTSPT) GS-2210-11.

EDUCATION: A Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree that provided a minimum of 24 semester hours in one or more of the following fields: computer science, engineering, information science, information systems management, mathematics, statistics, operations research, engineering, or technology management. (Note: If using education to qualify transcripts are required.) -OR

EXPERIENCE: Individuals must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below. The employing agency is responsible for identifying the specific level of proficiency required for each competency at each grade level based on the requirements of the position being filled.
Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.

NOTE: The basic requirements MUST be substantiated in your resume. Failure to provide the required information will render your application ineligible for consideration. Read all responses before making your selection.
3. Which of the following is true about your education and/or experience?
 A. I have a Master's or equivalent graduate degree in a qualifying field of study as described above.
 B. I have two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Master's or equivalent graduate degree in a qualifying field of study as described above.
 C. I have at least one full year of IT-related experience demonstrating the four competencies described above.
 D. I do not have the experience or education described above.
Specialized Experience: You must possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 level. Specialized experience for this position is defined as : resolving customer related technical software and hardware problems; diagnosing and resolving problems in response to customer reported incidents via IT support tickets; providing user management account support; and coordinating device files for software applications following established procedures. Experience also includes providing active directory account, connectivity client, and client application support for various devices.
4. Choose the one answer that best describes your experience.

 A. I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 in Federal service, as described above.
 B. I do not meet the above requirements.
Assessment 2
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.
1. - What is the primary purpose of a Domain Name System (DNS)?

 A. To convert domain names into IP addresses
 B. To provide email services
 C. To manage network security protocols
 D. To optimize network performance
2. - Which of the following is a common method to enhance password security?

 A. Using passwords that are at least four characters long
 B. Frequently changing passwords
 C. Sharing passwords only with trusted individuals
 D. Using dictionary words for ease of remembrance
3. - Which command is used to view the current TCP/IP network configuration on a Windows system?

 A. ipconfig
 B. netstat
 C. ping
 D. traceroute
4. -What is the main advantage of using incremental backups over full backups?

 A. Incremental backups require no storage space.
 B. Incremental backups restore faster than full backups.
 C. Incremental backups take less time and storage space.
 D. Incremental backups do not require a consistent backup schedule.
5. - When a user reports that their computer is running slowly, what is the first step you should take to troubleshoot the problem?

 A. Reinstall the operating system
 B. Check the Task Manager for high CPU or memory usage
 C. Replace the computer’s hardware
 D. Unplug and replug all cables
6. - What is the best way to ensure effective communication with a non-technical user when troubleshooting their issue?

 A. Use technical jargon to keep the conversation professional.
 B. Explain the issue and solution in simple terms they can understand.
 C. Transfer the user to another technician.
 D. Avoid asking the user any questions and proceed with fixing the problem.
7. - Which of the following tools is commonly used for version control in software development?

 A. Notepad++
 B. Git
 C. Microsoft Word
 D. Paint
8. - What does the term "scalability" refer to in the context of cloud computing?

 A. The ability to save files in multiple formats
 B. The ability to grow or shrink resources as needed
 C. The ability to back up data to multiple geographic locations
 D. The ability to ensure zero network latency
9. - Which database management system (DBMS) is known for being an open-source, relational database?

 A. Oracle
 B. Microsoft SQL Server
 C. PostgreSQL
 D. IBM DB2
10. - What is the primary function of an operating system?

 A. To provide internet access
 B. To manage computer hardware and software resources
 C. To develop software applications
 D. To serve as a word processor
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected