Position Title
Operations Support Specialist
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12798115-BNY-IMP-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 12, 2025 to Monday, September 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current USCIS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. The Reemployment Priority List (RPL) is the mechanism DHS uses to give reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees separated by reduction-in-force (RIF), or fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a former USCIS employee?  If so, have you met all of the following criteria?
Registered for the RPL program, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupied a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current/most recent performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent, and
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606
For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, visit 5 CFR 330 Subpart B.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
My SF-50 showing Separation - RIF. If that is not available yet, then official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who is in a permanent position that is in the competitive service (see block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type)?

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of our SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Kings, NY
 B. New York, NY
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
9
11
3. I acknowledge the following conditions if I choose to submit my resume through the USAJOBS Resume Builder:
I understand that resumes submitted through USAJOBS Resume Builder are converted to a PDF format when they are transmitted to USA Staffing from the USAJOBS applicant interface and additional spaces/page gaps are added to resumes during the Resume Builder conversion process;
Based on the above conditions, I understand that USCIS strongly encourages me to save my resume to a PDF document and upload the PDF document instead of submitting my resume created through Resume Builder;
I understand that USCIS' human resources will only review the first 2 pages of my resume to determine eligibility/qualifications for this position;
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I have met this requirement for consideration.

(Note: Additional guidance regarding this requirement is available within the How to Submit Your Resume section of the USCIS Resume Requirement FAQs.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 D. No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.
5. Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) from the Federal Government within the last 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6.

This job is being posted for individuals who reside within the local commuting area* of the announced duty location on a permanent basis. All candidates must meet this requirement, with the exception of Refugee, Asylum and International Operations (RAIO) overseas employees approved for rotation OR unless on an approved exemption OR at an approved USCIS location. In these cases you can apply for any location.

Do you reside within the local commuting area* of the announced duty location on a permanent basis OR are a RAIO overseas employee approved for rotation OR on an approved exemption** OR at an approved USCIS location***?

*Local commuting area is defined as a distance that you can reasonably travel back and forth daily to the announced duty location from your permanent residence.

**An approved exemption is: military spouses, approved RA, or temporary long distance remote status (documentation required).

***An approved USCIS location is defined as pre authorized space designated for use by the program, office or directorate.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

The address listed on your USA Jobs profile or resume must show that you reside within the local commuting area of the announced duty location.
If on an approved exemption you must provide the most recent approval.
If at an approved USCIS location you must provide the original reporting instructions.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. If your status changes, requiring you to report to a physical location you may be directed to report to one of the duty locations listed in the original job opportunity announcement without relocation expenses.
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I understand this requirement.
By answering NO to this question, I am asking to be removed from further consideration for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Are you a current USCIS employee who opted to take part of the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) and are currently in an Administrative Leave category?
 A. Yes.
 B. No.
9. This announcement is being advertised for multiple locations. Please select your preferred office you would like to be considered for.
 A. New Response
 B. New Response
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. GS-09 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience and/or education?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I have successfully completed a Master’s or equivalent graduate degree or at least two (2) full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B or J.D. in a field related to the work of this position as described in the vacancy announcement.
 C. I possess a combination of specialized experience and graduate education beyond the first year of graduate study that together meet the requirements for this position.
 D. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.
2. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
3. GS-11 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience and/or education?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or at least three (3) full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M. in a field related to the work of this position as described in the vacancy announcement.
 C. I possess a combination of specialized experience and graduate education beyond the first two (2) years of graduate study that together meet the requirements for this position.
 D. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.
4. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
5. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the  GS-09. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the  GS-07 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-07 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-07 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-09 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., VRA, Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement)
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
6. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the  GS-11. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the  GS-09 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-09 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-09 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-11 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., VRA, Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
The following section contains a multitude of question types. If you see a radio button, you can only select one response. If you see a checkbox, you may select all that apply.
7. Which administrative/clerical activities have you performed related to project/program management?
 A. I assisted with the implementation of special projects.
 B. I set up controls and records to assist in presenting statistical information on special programs.
 C. I advised superiors on correspondence management.
 D. I finalized official correspondence to ensure accuracy of content, spelling, format, and grammar.
 E. I monitored the progress of special projects/programs and informed key staff of potential impediments.
 F. None of the above.
8. Which project management tasks have you independently performed?
 A. Established project management standards (e.g., templates, guidelines) used by an entire organization.
 B. Executed established projects set by the executive leadership.
 C. Conducted research to resolve problems that arose during projects.
 D. Prioritized assigned individual tasks.
 E. Reviewed employees' work for technical adequacy.
 F. Provided performance feedback to team members on assigned tasks.
 G. Provided management oversight (e.g., tracking deadlines, monitoring performance) to a team on a project with organization-wide impact.
 H. None of the above.
9. Select the activities you have performed related to Security and Safety operations.
 A. I assisted a supervisor with safeguarding/securing office property.
 B. I participated in emergency planning and communicated the plan/procedures to others.
 C. I assisted the program manager with administering the local security program.
 D. I provided guidance to management on document security.
 E. I provided guidance to management of employee security.
 F. None of the above.
10. Which actions have you completed to implement strategic initiatives (e.g. enterprise-wide hiring reform, improving operating processes, developmental programs)?
 A. Participated in the implementation of a strategic initiative with organization-wide implications.
 B. Led a working group focused on implementation of an organization-wide strategic initiative.
 C. Developed a course of action (e.g., road map, project plan) for a strategic initiative.
 D. Identified risks or barriers to successful achievement for a strategic initiative.
 E. Reported on the progress of a strategic achievement to leadership (e.g., formal briefings, progress reports).
 F. Revised a course of action to meet a strategic goal.
 G. None of the above.
11. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience analyzing and comparing budget and program actions?
 A. I provided data to others who were responsible for analyzing and comparing budget program actions.
 B. I interpreted and applied existing polices for analyzing and comparing budget program actions.
 C. I independently developed policies related to analyzing and comparing budget program actions.
 D. I completed education and/or training related to analyzing and comparing budget and program actions, but do not have professional experience.
 E. I have no experience, training, or education related to analyzing and comparing budget and program actions.
12. Select the tasks you have performed to manage team assignments.
 A. Set expectations (i.e., standards, deadlines) for team/individual performance
 B. Executed an established operating/project budget
 C. Established work schedules`
 D. Assigned tasks
 E. Reviewed completed work for technical adequacy
 F. Provided feedback to team members/employees on completed work
 G. Reported team progress to senior management
 H. Created analysis of the workload to assist with performance measurements
 I. None of the above
13. Select the applications you have used independently to complete work assignments.
 A. Microsoft Excel
 B. Microsoft Access
 C. PowerPoint
 D. OneNote
 E. SharePoint
 F. Adobe Acrobat
 G. WebView
 H. Concur
 I. Publisher
 J. Word
 K. None of the above
14. Select the actions you have taken regarding security or compliance programs.
 A. I presented recommendations with justifications to high-ranking management officials on controversial program issues.
 B. I delivered training sessions on security/compliance topics (e.g., emergency preparedness, personnel security, physical security, document security, compliance procedures).
 C. I persuaded decision-making officials with differing goals and interests to implement my recommended course of action related to a security or compliance program.
 D. I participated in meetings to present security issues and resolve material security or non-compliance findings.
 E. I advised managers on revised security program operations or compliance program policies and requirements.
 F. None of the above.
15. Which administrative/clerical activities have you performed?
 A. I recorded and filed information on cases, projects, or studies.
 B. i maintained time and attendance reports.
 C. I maintained office files and records by updating old information and destroying records no longer needed.nse text
 D. I ordered office supplies to maintain stock levels.
 E. I updated guidance documents (e.g., manuals, policies, or directives).
 F. I documented and delivered telephone messages.
 G. I formatted and reviewed correspondence.
 H. I answered routine inquiries.
 I. I scheduled meetings/appointments for others.
 J. I arranged professional travel plans (e.g., booked reservations).onse text
 K. I referred callers to appropriate individuals/resources.
 L. None of the above.
16. Which financial activities have you performed?
 A. I processed financial transactions for supplies and equipment.
 B. I authorized or declined payment on contractor payment requests.
 C. I created cost-benefit analyses for review from Program/Project Manager(s).
 D. I conducted market research to present Program/Project Manager(s) with best valued prices.
 E. I processed Receiving and Acceptance tickets.
 F. I tracked Government Furnished Property when assigned to employees.
 G. I recommend invoice approval to Contracting Officer.
 H. I evaluated vendor proposals.
 I. I monitored the cost of each contract through automated financial systems.
 J. I worked with the customer and Program/Project Manager(s) to resolve invoice discrepancies.
 K. None of the above
17. Which personnel-related items/documents have you completed?
 A. Personnel Budget Projections
 B. Budget Requests for New Personnel
 C. Position Description
 D. Job Analysis
 E. Disciplinary Action
 F. Recruitment Actions
 G. None of the above
18. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience with travel programs?
 A. I have managed the office travel program for (a) group(s) (e.g., department, section, division), to include interpretation, development, and implementation of policies.
 B. I have provided advice to management on travel program-related issues and requirements to include interpretation, development, and implementation of policies.
 C. I have approved internal travel authorizations, amendments, and vouchers.
 D. I have prepared internal travel authorizations.
 E. I do not meet any of the options provided.
19. Select the human resources functions you have performed independently.
 A. Created personnel actions
 B. Approved personnel actions
 C. Reviewed current staffing levels and predicted future needs
 D. Formulated budgets
 E. Attended job fairs to source candidates
 F. Reviewed budget to determine if cuts needed to be made
 G. Reviewed candidate applications and made selection recommendations
 H. Interviewed potential candidates and made selection recommendations
 I. Determined the number of personnel needed to cover current workload
 J. Reviewed announcement drafts
 K. None of the above
20. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience managing a budget to support a mission accomplishment?
 A. I provided background research to assist others in estimating budgetary needs.
 B. I provided estimates of project needs to assist others with budgeting resources.
 C. I analyzed budgets to identify problems and advise management on possible solutions.
 D. I was responsible for the overall budget (formulating, justifying, administering) for a program area.
 E. I completed education and/or training related to managing a budget, but do not have professional experience.
 F. I have no experience, training, or education related to managing a budget.
21. Select the areas in which you have reviewed work for accuracy
 A. I have provided accurate and consistent feedback on work products.
 B. I have provided information timely and in a clear format for others to act on.
 C. I have reviewed and verified the accuracy of information and work products.
 D. I have independently monitored work details and the quality of my own work according to established policies, procedures, and guidelines.
 E. I have not reviewed work for accuracy.
22. Do you have experience translating raw data into reports that informed decisions made at the organization level?
 A. Assisted others compiling raw data into a usable format
 B. Translated raw data into reports for use by management within my division
 C. Translated raw data into reports for distribution outside of my division
 D. Translated raw data into reports to advise management decisions
 E. None of the above
23. Which statement best describes your experience in researching and preparing?
 A. I have assisted others in researching and preparing information as part of an intelligence analysis and production program.
 B. I have processed information to be used in an intelligence analysis and production program.
 C. I have been involved in researching and preparing information as part of an intelligence analysis and production program
 D. I have directed others in researching and preparing information as part of an intelligence analysis and production program
 E. I do not meet any of the options provided.
24. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience analyzing and reporting financial data?
 A. I analyzed budget, accounting, and program data.
 B. I implemented data analysis and reporting recommendations from quality assurance/quality control reviews.
 C. I gathered and interpreted financial data from a variety of sources.
 D. I formulated data analysis and reporting recommendations based on quality assurance/quality control reviews.
 E. I completed education and/or training related to financial data analysis and reporting, but do not have professional experience.
 F. I have no experience, training, or education related to financial data analysis and reporting.
25. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience utilizing laws, rules, regulations, policies, and procedures pertaining to Human Resource programs?
 A. I have completed my daily assignments in accordance with the appropriate Human Resource law, regulation, and/or policy.
 B. I have resolved Human Resource issues independently, using guidelines or procedures that required considerable interpretation and/or adaptation.
 C. I have reviewed the work of others to ensure they are following applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
 D. I have referred non-routine Human Resource questions to higher-level personnel for guidance.
 E. ?I have no experience, training, or education utilizing Human Resource laws, rules, regulations, policies, or procedures affecting Human Resource program areas
26. Which statement best describes your highest level of making sound, well-informed recommendations?
 A. I asked for guidance from others (peers, supervisors, trainers).
 B. I referenced established training documents and operating procedures to solve work problems.
 C. I collaborated with peers to make sound, well-informed decisions.
 D. I trained others on techniques to assist in making well-informed recommendations.
27. Select the tasks you have performed to implement new or improved security methods.
 A. I identified critical security issues in need of improvement.
 B. I developed new data gathering techniques to evaluate security methods.
 C. I followed existing procedural guidance to gather security-related data for senior staff evaluation.
 D. analyzed data to make determinations/recommendations on the effectiveness of new or improved security methods.
 E. None of the above.
28. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience monitoring financial system transactions day-to-day?
 A. I monitored transactions to ensure they were in compliance with the spending plan and ceiling authorities.
 B. I identified errors and took corrective action.
 C. I reviewed other's monitoring of transactions.
 D. I completed education and/or training related to financial system transactions, but do not have professional experience.
 E. I have no experience, training, or education related to financial system transactions.
29. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience solving problems (e.g., navigating deviations from standard work processes)?
 A. I asked for guidance from others (e.g., peers, supervisors, trainers) to solve work problems.
 B. I referenced established training documents and operating procedures to solve work problems.
 C. I collaborated with peers to develop alternative options to solve a problem.
 D. I trained others on how to resolve problems (e.g., adapt to deviations) in their work.
 E. I completed education and/or training in problem solving but don't have professional experience.
 F. None of the above.
30. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience impacting customer satisfaction related to facilities management services?
 A. I have created design plans for a customer and communicated with them, but I was not the project lead.
 B. I have created design plans for a customer, but was not in direct communication with the customer.
 C. I have created, communicated and led facility design projects.
 D. ??I do not meet any of the options provided.?
31. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience in solving complex problems in the workplace.
 A. I have solved difficult problems in the workplace by surrounding myself with others who are strong in problem solving and learning from them.
 B. I am positive in my approach and reframe the problem or issue to come up with new solutions.
 C. I have solved complex problems in the workplace by focusing on details, thinking analytically, and offering practical solutions that evaluate the potential costs, resources, and barriers to a successful solution.
 D. I have identified problems in the workplace but have no experience solving complex problems in the workplace.
32. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience applying rules, regulations, principles and procedures for budget formulation and execution?
 A. I revised rules, regulations, principles or procedures associated with budget formulation and execution to make organizational improvements.
 B. I developed new policies, guidance, directives, or procedures related to budget formulation and execution for an organization to follow.
 C. I implemented budgetary rules, regulations, principles and procedures related to budget formulation and execution (e.g., resource planning, OMB approval, Congressional justification, budget execution).
 D. I completed education and/or training related to budgetary rules, regulations, principles and procedures, but do not have professional experience.
 E. I have no experience, training, or education related to budgetary rules, regulations, principles and procedures.
33. If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "pass," "satisfactory," or better?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. I am a Federal employee but have not received a performance rating.
 D. Not applicable. I am not a Federal employee.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
34. Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected