Position Title
Golf Course Superintendent
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
PEN 25-12760219 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 7, 2025 to Monday, July 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Golf Course Superintendent, NF-1601-04 position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. All experience claimed in this assessment must be clearly documented on your resume.
1. How many years of supervisory experience do you have in a mangement position related to a maintenance/golf course operation?
 A. I do not have any supervisory experience in a management position related to a golf course operation.
 B. I have one (1) to two (2) years of supervisory experience in a management position related to a golf course operation.
 C. I have two or more years of supervisory experience in a management position related to a golf course operation.
2. How many years of experience do you possess with working knowledge of various types of pests and pesticides required for treatment?
 A. I possess no working experience with pests and pesticides as required for treatment.
 B. I possess less than six (6) months of working experience with pests and pesticides as required for treatment.
 C. I possess between six (6) months and two (2) years of working experience with pests and pesticides as required for treatment.
 D. I possess between two (2) years and four (4) years of working experience with pests and pesticides as required for treatment.
3. How many years of experience do you possess in Golf Course maintenance and operations to include knowledge of established agronomic practices?
 A. I possess no experience with golf course maintenance and agronomic practices.
 B. I possess less than one (1) year experience in golf course maintenance and agronomic practices.
 C. I possess between one (1) year and three (3) years' experience in golf course maintenance and agronomic practices.
 D. I possess three (3) of more years' experience in golf course maintenance and agronomic practices.
4. This position requires a certification in Pest Control Technology, if you currently do not hold this certification, are you willing to obtain within six (6) months of employment.
 A. Yes, I currently possess a Navy Department, Medical Entomology and Pest Control Technology certificate.
 B. No, I do not currently possess a Navy Department Medical Entomology and Pest Control Technology certificate, but I will obtain within six (6) months of employment.
 C. No, I do not currently possess a Navy Department Medical Entomology and Pest Control Technology certificate, nor am I willing to obtain.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. Are you available for an irregular tour, which includes weekends and/or holidays?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a current member of Golf Course Superintendents Association of America?(Supporting documentation must be uploaded)
 A. I have a current Class A card.
 B. No but I have a degree associated with with turf grass and least 3 years of practical experience.
 C. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected