Position Title
Medical Records Administrator (CHIM)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12790314-25-DF Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 28, 2025 to Friday, September 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.
The following are the requirements for appointment as a Medical Records Administration Specialist (MRAS) and Medical Records Administrator (MRA) (collectively referred to as "MRA" or "the occupation") in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). These requirements apply to all VHA MRAs in the General Schedule (GS)- 0669 series. MRAs in VHA perform or supervise work concerned with the management of a health record program or the provision of services related to medical record administration/health information services. MRAs manage, preserve, analyze, and supervise the use of diagnostic and therapeutic health records/health information management. They develop policies and procedures and provide advice on the use of health records and health information management. Excluded from the GS-0669 qualification standard are positions such as privacy, compliance, records manager, medical records technician ((MRT) (Release of Information)), MRT (Health Information Technician), MRT (Coder), clinical documentation improvement specialist, MRT (Cancer Registrar), or other occupations which have their own qualification standard. In the health care community, MRAs are generally referred to as "health information managers (HIM) or health information management specialists (HIMS)," and these terms are considered to be synonymous where stated in this questionnaire and vacancy announcement.
DEFINITIONS.
(a) Creditable Experience. Experience is only creditable if it is in health information management and is directly related to the position to be filled. To be creditable, the candidate's experience must have demonstrated the use of knowledge, skills, and abilities associated with current practice. Experience satisfying this requirement must be active practice, which is paid/non-paid employment as an MRT/MRA or related field such as medical coding, qualitative and quantitative health record analysis, Health Insurance Portability & Accountability Act privacy and release of information, or preparation, maintenance, and management of health records.
(b) Health Information Management (HIM) Certification. Higher-level health information management certification is limited to certification obtained through AHIMA. To be acceptable for qualifications, the specific certification must represent a comprehensive competency in the occupation. Certification titles may change and certifications that meet the definition of HIM certification may be added/removed by the above certifying body; however, current HIM certifications include Registered Health Information Technician (RHIT) and Registered Health Information Administrator (RHIA).
(c) Quality of Experience. To be creditable, experience must be documented on the application or resume and verified in an employment reference, or through other independent means.
All MRAs must meet the basic requirements for the position. The following are the basic requirements of the MRA in the VHA.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d) and 7407(d) "No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. MRAs must be proficient in spoken and written English. See 38 U.S.C. ? 7403(f). You must be proficient in basic written and spoken English in order to meet the requirement of this position."
1. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?

 A. Yes, I am proficient in spoken and written English.
 B. No, I am NOT proficient in spoken and written English.
You must have the following basic education and/or experience for the MRA occupation: (a.) Experience. Three years of creditable experience in the field of medical records that included the preparation, maintenance, and management of health records and health information systems demonstrating a knowledge of medical terminology, medical records procedures, medical coding, or medical, administrative, and legal requirements of health care delivery systems. (b.) Education. Successful completion of a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, with a major field of study in health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 24 semester hours in health information management or health information technology. (c.) Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of creditable experience and education that equals 100 percent may be used to meet basic requirements. For example, two years above high school from an accredited college or university, with 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management, plus one year and six months of creditable experience that included the preparation, maintenance, and management of health records and health information systems meets an equivalent combination.
2. Select the option that best describes your basic experience and/or education.

 A. Experience. Three years of creditable experience in the field of medical records that included the preparation, maintenance, and management of health records and health information systems demonstrating a knowledge of medical terminology, medical records procedures, medical coding, or medical, administrative, and legal requirements of health care delivery systems. (Must be documented in your resume.)
 B. Education. Successful completion of a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, with a major field of study in health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 24 semester hours in health information management or health information technology. (Must Provide Transcripts)
 C. Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of creditable experience and education that equals 100 percent may be used to meet basic requirements. For example, two years above high school from an accredited college or university, with 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management, plus one year and six months of creditable experience that included the preparation, maintenance, and management of health records and health information systems meets an equivalent combination.
 D. I do not have the basic education or experience listed above.
Grade Determinations. In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met for the Medical Records Administrator (CHIM), GS-13.
Assignments. This assignment is the Chief Health Information Management (CHIM), which is the highest-level professional position at the facility with responsibility for the management and direction of the health information management program. This assignment is only for the CHIM in VA Medical Centers for all categories (1a, 1b, and 1c) within the complexity level 1 as designated in the VHA, "2014 Facility Complexity Level Model", with full program management and supervisory responsibility to direct professional MRAs, technical MRTs, and other support staff in health information management. CHIMs in this assignment provide technical advice, planning, and evaluation about health information management issues impacting the overall program on a regular and recurring basis. Multi-division, integrated health care systems under the leadership of a single director are considered to be a single facility with one CHIM. A position with program responsibility over less than a single health care system does not have full program responsibility for the health information management program. The CHIM establishes policies, procedures, responsibilities, and requirements for HIM-related matters, such as health record documentation, coding and clinical documentation improvement, release of information, file room/scanning, records management, transcription and medical speech recognition, as well as the overall management of health information and Veterans health records. They oversee development, implementation and adherence to HIM industry standards, policies, procedures, laws, regulations, and accrediting bodies. They ensure the facility is in compliance with applicable standards, by completing HIM audits, developing healthcare data reports, and statistical information, for timely and accurate reporting. The CHIM monitors HIM performance through dashboards, productivity standards, and benchmarking. They participate in establishing and implementing strategic facility and HIM Department goals and controlling program activities and cost, budgeting, procurement, and property management, to achieve goals and improve processes. The CHIM monitors and manages HIM workflow to ensure program objectives are met.
To qualify for the CHIM, you must have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) described at that level.
The lower grade, GS-12, MRA KSAs are:
Skill in managing various projects and processes, which includes the ability to develop new or improved solutions to complex technical problems in health information management.
Ability to advise management and staff on a wide range of health information management practices based on current industry standards, policies, statutes, laws, and regulations.
Ability to plan, justify, develop, evaluate, assess, monitor, and/or advise on current health information management processes, and recommend changes in policies or procedures.
Ability to determine and evaluate compliance with legal, ethical, and regulatory guidelines, and accrediting bodies as they apply to health information management.
Ability to successfully apply principles and techniques of sound resource management (i.e., staffing, space, contracts, equipment).
Ability to provide the full range of supervisory duties to include assignment of work, completing performance evaluations, selection of staff, and recommendation of awards, advancements, and disciplinary actions.
3. Do you have one year of creditable experience equivalent to next lower grade level that demonstrates the KSAs described above?

 A. Yes, I have one year of creditable experience that demonstrates the KSAs of the next lower grade listed above. This experience and the KSA is documented in my resume. I understand that failure to document the KSAs may result in not being referred or considered for this position.
 B. No, I do not have one year of creditable experience that demonstrates the KSAs of the lower grade listed above.
Medical Records Administrator (CHIM), GS-13, must have Health Information Management (HIM) Certification. This higher-level health information management certification is limited to certification obtained through AHIMA. To be acceptable for qualifications, the specific certification must represent a comprehensive competency in the occupation. Certification titles may change and certifications that meet the definition of HIM certification may be added/removed by the above certifying body; however, current HIM certifications include Registered Health Information Technician (RHIT) and Registered Health Information Administrator (RHIA). The only acceptable proof of this certification must be provided from: https://my.ahima.org/certification/credentialverification.aspx (https://my.ahima.org/certification/credentialverification.aspx) Website.
4. Do you have a current AHIM Health Information Management (HIM) certification that includes RHIA and/or RHIT?
 A. Yes, I have one or both current AHIM certifications that includes Registered Health Information Technician (RHIT) and/or Registered Health Information Administrator (RHIA), and I have provided proof of this certification with my application from the https://my.ahima.org/certification/credentialverification.aspx Website.
 B. No, I do not have either the AHIM RHIA or RHIT HIM certification.
Medical Records Administrator (CHIM), GS-13, must demonstrate the following knowledge, skills, and abilities: (These KSAs must be documented in your resume.)
Ability to determine and evaluate compliance with legal, ethical and regulatory guidelines and accrediting bodies, as they apply to health information management.
Ability to provide sound, technical guidance to staff at various levels about major program, legal, or procedural changes related to health information management.
Skill in revising facility policies and procedures to improve health information management services and to evaluate, modify, and/or adapt new methods to meet regulatory requirements.
Skill in analyzing complex data, interpreting and trending results for effective management of the HIM program.
Skill in management/administration, which includes program planning, coordination, interpretation, supervision, consultation, negotiation, problem solving, and monitoring of HIM processes.
Ability to delegate authority, evaluate and oversee people and programs, accomplish program goals, and adapt to changing priorities.
5. Can you demonstrate the KSAs for the Medical Records Administrator (CHIM), GS-13, that are listed above?
 A. Yes, I can demonstrate the Medical Records Administrator (CHIM), GS-13, KSAs, and these KSAs are documented in my resume.
 B. No, I cannot demonstrate the Medical Records Administrator (CHIM), GS-13, KSAs listed above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected