Position Title
Registered Respiratory Therapist (Night Shift)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTD-12766092-25-TAN Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, July 18, 2025 to Monday, July 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
1. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this Registered Respiratory Therapist position at VA Connecticut Healthcare System. This assessment is designed to determine an applicants eligibility through their education and experience. Please answer each question below to show how you meet the basic requirements of the occupation as well as the grade determining factors.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. English
VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Chapter 2, Section D, Paragraph 5a, requires that applicants must be proficient in spoken and written English. 

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Education
Do you possess the basic educational requirement of completing a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor ?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2a. Please enter the following information regarding your education in a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor
Name of School:
Degree Obtained: 
Conferred Date:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. Licensure
Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT.

Do you possess and maintain a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3a. Please enter the following information regarding your Licensure showing that you possess and maintain a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT.
License Number:
State that issued License:
Expiration Date:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. Credentials
Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a valid, current, unrestricted credential of RRT.

Do you possess and maintain a valid, current, unrestricted credential of RRT ?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Grade Determination
Registered Respiratory Therapist GS-11 Full Performance Level : Experience, Licensure and Credential and meet all KSA's. 

In addition to the basic requirements candidates must have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level. Examples of this experience includes but is not limited to:
Obtain, interpret, and analyze physiological specimens and data
Consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals to ensure quality patient care
Manage and maintain the airway and ventilation of the patient through the use of appropriate mechanical means
Assess and evaluate patients to determine and recommend intervention to develop and implement a plan of care, such as, implementing protocols, intubation, monitoring critical systems and uses advanced modes of ventilation.
Provide outpatient services such as home ventilators, PAP therapy, oxygen therapy and COPD care.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. GS-11 Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs):
In addition to the requirements above, candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals for complex respiratory care to develop care plans to provide favorable patient outcomes.
Skill in evaluating the efficacies of therapeutic modalities.
Skill in performing advanced airway and ventilation management.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected