Position Title
Mariner Credentialing Compliance Investigator
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
20250910-79843-49550-DB-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 11, 2025 to Sunday, September 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a United States Citizen?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1.

Choose one answer that best describes your experience as related to the specialized experience requirements for this position:

Identify fraudulent activity;
Obtain and analyze factual information;
Analyzing and applying maritime laws, regulations and policies to determine compliance;
Planning and organizing work;
Communicating effectively orally and in writing;
Drafting written investigative reports;
Assisting investigative officers in pre-hearing matters or marine casualty investigations, such as research, discovery, evidence documentation and logistics

 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service as described above
 B. I do not meet any of the requirements described above.
2. Which regulations or laws have you interpreted or applied to manage marine enforcement cases?
 A. Investigation policy
 B. Administrative law procedures
 C. Federal Regulations and
 D. United States Code
 E. None of the above
3. To which marine entities have you applied federal regulations?
 A. Merchant mariners
 B. Commercial vessels
 C. Educational institutions or training providers
 D. None of the above
4. Which marine investigation credentials do you currently hold?
 A. Marine Casualty investigator
 B. Suspension and Revocation Hearing Officer
 C. Marine Enforcement Investigator
 D. None of the above
5. Which software applications have you operated on a regular and recurring basis?
 A. Microsoft Office Suite
 B. Microsoft Teams
 C. Adobe
 D. E-mail
 E. None of the above
6. Which choice best describes your highest level of experience researching and analyzing information to assist criminal investigators in ongoing investigations?
 A. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
7. Which investigative techniques have you applied to gather and protect evidence in marine investigations?
 A. Interviewing
 B. Diagrams
 C. Records examination
 D. None of the above
8. Which tasks have you performed while investigating possible violations?
 A. Interviewed key officials, employees, or members of the community to gather information
 B. Determining the pattern of events and processes that proceeded a violation
 C. Analyzing the means to achieve the objectives of the violation
 D. Determining the responsible party/parties
 E. None of the above
9. With which individuals have you interacted in a professional setting?
 A. Headquarters staff
 B. Executives at other federal agencies
 C. Senior level management within the organization
 D. State and local government staff
 E. Officials from private industry
 F. Senior level staff
 G. Employees from numerous sources
 H. None of the above
10. To which groups have you made oral presentations?
 A. Team members and/or other peers
 B. Supervisors and/or managers in your organization
 C. High level officials in government or private organizations
 D. Audiences outside your organization, including conferences, public meetings, focus groups, etc.
 E. Assistant United States Attorney Office
 F. Grand Jury or other court proceedings
 G. None of the above
11. Select the option that best describes your experience conducting a wide range of analyses using database information to produce output that assists in detecting crime trends.
 A. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
12. Which tasks have you performed while leading projects?
 A. Set project goals, milestones and expectations
 B. Planned work assignments to be assigned to project/team members
 C. Assigned tasks and responsibilities to project/team members
 D. Reviewed completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness
 E. Followed-up with project/team members to assure timeliness in meeting milestones
 F. Resolved conflicts, differences or problems among project/team members
 G. Coached and mentoring staff to achieve desired results
 H. Reported progress to senior management
 I. Evaluated the effectiveness of completed projects
 J. None of the above
13. Have you evaluated personnel action cases involving misconduct and subpoenas?
 A. Yes
 B. No
14. For which white-collar criminal, civil, regulatory, or administrative violations have you conducted investigations?
 A. Fraud
 B. Forgery
 C. False claims and statement
 D. Bribery
 E. Conflicts of interest
 F. noncompliance with administrative and/or legislative requirements
 G. Procurement and contract fraud
 H. None of the above
15. Which written documents have you authored?
 A. Correspondence within my organization
 B. Operating instructions
 C. Formal instructions or directives
 D. Technical manuals
 E. Training materials
 F. Accident or police reports
 G. Investigative reports
 H. Articles for periodicals
 I. Legal briefs
 J. Commercially available publications such as books or manuscripts
 K. Congressional correspondence
 L. None of the above
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected