Position Title
MECHANICAL ENGINEER
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
20250707-59675-180111-OE-EH Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 14, 2025 to Wednesday, July 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
9
11
12
13
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this GS-09/11/12/13 position at our agency. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
1. From the descriptions below, select the one response which best describes how you meet the Basic Requirement for this Mechanical Engineer GS-830 position.
 A. I have completed a bachelor's or higher degree in engineering from an ABET (Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology) accredited school or that included courses in differential and integral calculus and courses in 5 of the following 7 areas:(a)statics, dynamics;(b)strength of materials;(c)fluid mechanics, hydraulics;(d)thermodynamics;(e)electrical fields and circuits;(f)nature and properties of materials; and (g)any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. You must provide unofficial transcripts as verification that you meet this education requirement by the closing date of this announcement.
 B. I am currently registered as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or have licensure as a Professional Engineer PE) by any state, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico.
 C. I have successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico.
 D. I have a combination of college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that included successful completion of at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and that included the courses specified in the basic requirements under including the courses listed in the first paragraph above. (NOTE: The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of a professional engineering curriculum.)
 E. I have successfully completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field,( e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology) AND have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience under the guidance and supervision of a professional engineer.
 F. My experience and/or education do not match the choices above
2. In addition to meeting the Basic Education Requirements for this series, choose the answer that best describes how you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this GS-09 position

 A. I have one full year of minimum qualifying specialized experience comparable in difficulty and responsibility to at least the GS-07 level in the federal service. Examples of minimum qualifying specialized experience include performing the following types of tasks on a regular and recurring basis: performing work that was part of a broader assignment, involving the application of standard engineering principles, methods, and practices. I adapted practices and techniques, adjusted/correlated data, recognized discrepancies & deviations in results, and followed operations through a series of related detailed steps or processes, made preliminary selections and adaptations of engineering alternatives, and after approval, carried out the process.
 B. I have completed 2 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master's degree or master's or equivalent graduate degree
 C. I possess a combination of graduate level education (beyond the first year of progressive graduate study )and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position.
 D. My experience and/or education do not match the choices above
3. In addition to meeting the Basic Education Requirements for this series, choose the answer that best describes how you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this GS-11 position.
 A. I have one full year of minimum qualifying specialized experience comparable in difficulty and responsibility to at least the GS-09 level in the federal service. Examples of minimum qualifying specialized experience include performing the following types of tasks on a regular and recurring basis: performing standard engineering practices and principles; adjust and correlate data, recognize discrepancies & deviations in results; make adaptations of engineering alternatives, and carried out the process. I understand project management principles and apply them, recommend sources of supply including Coast Guard, Other Government Agencies and commercial sources.
 B. I have at least 3 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree.
 C. I possess a combination of graduate level education (beyond the first 2 years of progressive graduate study)and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position.
 D. My experience and/or education do not match the choices above
4. In addition to meeting the Basic Education Requirements for this series, choose the answer that best describes how you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this GS-12 position.
 A. I have one full year of minimum qualifying specialized experience comparable in difficulty and responsibility to at least the GS-11 level in the federal service. Examples of minimum qualifying specialized experience include performing the following types of tasks on a regular and recurring basis: working on complex projects and making needed innovations and modifications, identifying complex engineering issues; evaluates design objectives, performs complex technical calculations, and guides and evaluates Architectual/Engineering contractor efforts. Works on project logistics, project execution management, facility asset management, and process management.
 B. My experience does not match the choice above.
5. In addition to meeting the Basic Education Requirements for this series, choose the answer that best describes how you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this GS-13 position.


 A. I have one full year of minimum qualifying specialized experience comparable in difficulty and responsibility to at least the GS-12 level in the federal service. Examples of minimum qualifying specialized experience include performing the following types of tasks on a regular and recurring basis: working with system design for installation and modification; works with data required to support design activities. Manages and leads design, production or other projects within budget as directed. Works with procurement packages for systems equipment; coach and trains junior engineers and interns.
 B. My experience does not match the choice above.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.
6. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in the application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fired or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001) my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected