Position Title
IT SPECIALIST (APPSW/INET)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
ID-12750612-AF-3524 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, June 26, 2025 to Sunday, July 27, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.

All current (nationwide) federal employees.  Are you a current federal employee?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1 or 2).

 

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current National Guard member within the state for which this position is being advertised?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Please answer the following questions:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1.

GENERAL EXPERIENCE: Experience must be IT related; the experience may be demonstrated by paid or unpaid experience and/or completion of specific, intensive training (for example, IT certification), as appropriate. For all positions individuals must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below. 

Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.

SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: Applicant must have at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-11 level. Specialized experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular competencies/knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position and is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. Such experience is typically gained in the IT field or through the performance of work where the primary concern is IT. The employing agency is responsible for defining the specialized experience based on the requirements of the position being filled.



To ensure full credit is given for the qualification requirements you will need to be specific with your experience and write it in terms that the Human Resource Specialist can easily understand (please refrain from using acronyms).  Include both military and civilian experience (credit is applied for both your military and civilian jobs, except for overlapping periods).  Please include any MOS/AFSC that you hold/held and the dates they were obtained.

Do you meet these requirements and does your resume reflect the specialized experience listed above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2.

Your resume must include start and end dates (MONTH AND YEAR) for each position listed to receive credit for specialized experience.

Examples:

From 2002 to 2004 I was a crew chief. (NO)

From Mar 2002 to Oct 2004 I served as the crew chief on a C-130 where I used testing equipment to troubleshoot malfunctions with systems. I repaired, maintained, serviced, inspected, and modified systems on the aircraft daily in the performance of my job. I use tech orders and manufacturers drawings and diagrams to determine proper maintenance procedures on assigned aircraft. (YES)

Does your resume reflect both month and year?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. To be eligible for this position, you must currently hold a rank within the pay grades of E-4 through O-3.

Do you currently hold a rank within the pay grades provided?


 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected