Position Title
Wildland Firefighter (Engine) - Direct Hire Authority
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
NPSFAM-25-12753771-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 3, 2025 to Wednesday, July 16, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a United States Citizen?

For more information, review Employment of U.S Citizens.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.  
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Kings Canyon National Park, CA
 B. Whiskeytown, CA
A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.
2. Credit will be given for all appropriate qualifying experience. To receive credit for experience, your resume MUST clearly indicate the nature of the duties and responsibilities for each position, starting and ending dates of employment (MUST include beginning and ending month/year e.g., 5/2019-10/2019 or 5/10/2019-10/20/2019), and the resume must reflect full and/or part-time or total number of hours worked (i.e., work 40+ hours a week, rather than indicating full-time). If part-time, the exact hours must be annotated to be able to pro-rate the amount of qualified specialized experience.
 A. Yes, I certify that I have read and understood this requirement. I understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my resume/application.
 B. No, I have not provided this information in my resume/application. I understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my resume/application.
Assessment 1
Minimum Qualification Requirements
1. From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience requirements for a Wildland Firefighter (Interagency Hotshot Crew Lead Firefighter), GS-0456-06. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank, you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these requirements, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.

NOTE: If firefighting experience includes both structural and wildland, it is essential that your application materials clearly separate and document your wildland experience.
 A. I have at least 1 year of creditable specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service which involved work performing and directing others in starting pump engine, priming pump, adjusting engine speed and pump valves, laying hose appropriate nozzles and nozzle adjustment in effective use of water and foam application; Performing prescribed fire operations including preparation, ignition, monitoring, holding, and mop up; Evaluating initial fire situations, determining rate of spread, potential hazards to property and other improvements; Ensure the engine and fire equipment has been kept in full state of readiness for emergency dispatch.
 B. I have NOT completed 1 full year of specialized experience.
Selective Factor - Maximum Age Requirement
2. This position is covered by the special retirement provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8336 (c) and 5 U.S.C. 8412 (d). Applicants must not have reached their 37th birthday upon appointment to this position unless there is sufficient prior Federal service in a covered position to permit retirement on or before the mandatory retirement age for this type of position. An exception is allowed if you are a qualified veterans preference eligible.
 A. I have not reached age 37.
 B. I am 37 years of age or older and not currently in a special retirement position, but I would qualify as a veteran's preference eligible. Note: Provide the necessary documentation to support your veterans' preference claim (e.g., copy of DD-214, Veterans Affairs letter, SF-15, etc.)
 C. I am 37 years of age or older, but I have had prior Federal service in a covered primary law enforcement or firefighter position(s), which would permit retirement on or before the mandatory retirement age of 57 for this type of position. Note: Provide documentation with your application (a copy of your SF-50's) that shows beginning and ending dates of your covered Federal service and hours per week.
 D. I am 37 years of age or older and do not meet any of the above requirements.
Selective Factor - Firefighter Type 1 (FFT1) Qualification
3. This position has a mandatory selective placement factor. In addition to the basic qualifications and specialized experience described above, selectees must possess by the closing date of this announcement NWCG Core Requirements. Please select the response below that best describes your qualifications in this area. If you do not meet the requirements of this selective factor, you will be rated ineligible for these positions. Applicants must document how they meet this requirement by including a copy of the IQCS Master Record or equivalent in their application material.
 A. I currently hold, have held, or will be able to obtain NWCG qualification as Firefighter Type 1 (FFT1) or equivalent by the closing date of this announcement.
 B. I do not meet the qualification requirements stated above.
Selective Factor - Incident Commander Type 5 (ICT5) Qualification
4. This position has a mandatory selective placement factor. In addition to the basic qualifications and specialized experience described above, selectees must possess by the closing date of this announcement NWCG Core Requirements. Please select the response below that best describes your qualifications in this area. If you do not meet the requirements of this selective factor, you will be rated ineligible for these positions. Applicants must document how they meet this requirement by including a copy of the IQCS Master Record or equivalent in their application material.
 A. I currently hold, have held, or will be able to obtain NWCG qualification as Incident Commander Type 5 (ICT5) or equivalent by the closing date of this announcement.
 B. I do not meet the qualification requirements stated above.
Selective Factor - S-290 (Intermediate Wildland Fire Behavior) and S-211 (Portable Pumps and Water Use)
5. This position has a mandatory selective placement factor. In addition to the basic qualifications and specialized experience described above, selectees must possess by the closing date of this announcement NWCG Core Requirements. Please select the response below that best describes your qualifications in this area. If you do not meet the requirements of this selective factor, you will be rated ineligible for these positions. Applicants must document how they meet this requirement by including a copy of the IQCS Master Record or equivalent in their application material.
 A. Yes, I have completed both S-290 (Intermediate Wildland Fire Behavior) and S-211 (Portable Pumps and Water Use) by the closing date of this announcement.
 B. No, I have not completed both S-290 (Intermediate Wildland Fire Behavior) and S-211 (Portable Pumps and Water Use) by the closing date of this announcement.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
6. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected