Position Title
CYP Food Service Worker
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
MYPT-25-12795278 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 5, 2025 to Friday, September 19, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Conditions of Employment
1. For security clearance purposes, I am or will be 18 years of age or older prior to start of employment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I am willing and able to submit to a pre-employment physical exam prior to employment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I am willing and able to wear a prescribed uniform while performing duties of this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. This position requires minimum High School Diploma.

** I possess High School Diploma or higher education and have uploaded a copy of my diploma and or school transcripts with my application.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. This position is subject to special inoculation and immunization requirements as a condition of employment for working with
children. Employee is required to obtain appropriate immunization against communicable diseases in accordance with
recommendations from the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP), which includes the influenza vaccine.

**I am aware and accept inoculation and immunization as condition of employment.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Assistant Youth Sports and Fitness Coordinator. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
1. Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you.
 A. I have a high school diploma or equivalent.
 B. I have none of the above.
2. How many years of experience do you have in supporting the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Child and Adult Care Food Program (CACFP) and other food programs?
 A. I have 2+ years of experience in supporting the USDA CACFP, as described above, in a Department of Defense (DoD) Child and Youth Program.
 B. I have 1 to 2 years of experience in supporting the USDA CACFP, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 C. I have 2+ years of experience in supporting the USDA CACFP, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 D. I have 1 to 2 years of experience in supporting the USDA CACFP, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 E. I have 1 or more years of experience in supporting the USDA CACFP.
 F. I have less than 1 year of experience in supporting food programs.
 G. I have no experience in the above.
3. How many years of experience do you have in food preparation and procedures?
 A. I have 2+ years of experience in food preparation and procedures in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 B. I have 1 to 2 years of experience in food preparation and procedures in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 C. I have 2+ years of experience in food preparation and procedures in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 D. I have 1 to 2 years of experience in food preparation and procedures in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 E. I have 1 or more years of experience in food preparation and procedures.
 F. I have less than 1 year of experience in food preparation and procedures.
 G. I have no experience in the above.
4. How many years of experience do you have in food handling techniques, personal hygiene standards, and safe work procedures?
 A. I have 3+ years of experience in food handling techniques, hygiene standards, and safe work procedures in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 B. I have 1 to 3 years of experience in food handling techniques, hygiene standards, and safe work procedures in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 C. I have 3+ years of experience in food handling techniques, hygiene standards, and safe work procedures in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 D. I have 1 to 3 years of experience in food handling techniques, hygiene standards, and safe work procedures in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 E. I have 1 or more years of experience in food handling techniques, hygiene standards, and safe work procedures.
 F. I have less than 1 year of experience in food handling techniques, hygiene standards, and safe work procedures.
 G. I have no experience in the above
5. How many years of experience do you have in following food sanitation standards and procedures to prevent contamination (e.g., cleaning equipment that has been used for raw food before further use and using chemical sanitizers)?
 A. I have 3+ years of experience in food sanitation, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 B. I have 1 to 3 years of experience in food sanitation, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 C. I have 3+ years of experience in food sanitation, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 D. I have 1 to 3 years of experience in food sanitation, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 E. I have 1 or more years of experience in food sanitation.
 F. I have less than 1 year of experience in food sanitation.
 G. I have no experience in the above.
6. Have you ever held a Food Service Program position in a DoD Child and Youth Program?
 A. Yes, I have held a Food Service Program position in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 B. No, I have not held a Food Service Program position in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected