Position Title
Medical Supply Tech (Sterile Processing)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTA-12809550-25-TM Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 3, 2025 to Wednesday, October 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this Medical Supply Technician (Sterile Processing) position with the Federal government. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


This section addresses the minimum qualifications for this vacancy announcement.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency Requirement: MSTs must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3j.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?

 Yes
 No


2.
Experience and/or Education:
From the statements below, please select the one that best describes your educational/experience background. Please see the job posting for additional details and/or information.

 I possess at least six (6) months of experience that demonstrates that I have the ability to perform the work of a Medical Supply Technician (Sterile Processing)
 I possess one (1) year above high school in education with at least six (6) semester hours in health care related courses such as sterile processing, nursing assistant, hospital corpsman, and operating room and surgical technician courses related to this position.
 I possess a combination of experience and education that qualify for entry level for which both education and experience are acceptable.
 I am currently employed in VHA as a Medical Supply Technician and have been since the effective date of this qualification standard (July 8, 2015) and am considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation.
 I do not possess any of the above education, experience, grandfathering provision to meet the basic requirements of this position.


In addition to the basic requirements of employment, the following criteria must be met when determining the grade of candidates.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
GS-06: Do you possess one (1) full year of specialized experience that equipped you with the particular knowledge, methods, and technical abilities needed to perform successfully the duties of this Medical Supply Technician position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled? The experience must have been equivalent to at least the GS-05 level in Federal service; and do you have the Knowledge, Skills and Abilities listed below: (Experience must be fully documented on your resume)
Knowledge of surgical instruments used in operating rooms and clinic settings.
Knowledge of universal precautions for safety and prevention of cross contamination.
Working knowledge of medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, microbiology, medical conditions and procedures.
Knowledge of sterility principles in regards to instrumentation.
Ability to read and interpret written instructions and procedures.

 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title, duties (be as detailed as possible) month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week). Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙