Position Title
IT SPECIALIST (SYSADMIN/NETWORK)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
OH-12810520-AF-25-325-T5 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, October 6, 2025 to Wednesday, November 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizens.  Are you a US Citizen?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.

Do you have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below?

Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have education or 1-year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-9)? Specialized experience includes experience, education, or training that approaches techniques and requirements appropriate to an assigned computer applications area or computer specialty area in an organization; Experience planning the sequence of actions necessary to accomplish the assignment where this entailed coordination with others outside the organizational unit and development of project controls; Experience that required adaptations of guidelines or precedents to meet the needs of the assignment; and Experience preparing documentation on cost/benefit studies where is involved summarizing the material and organizing it in a logical fashion.
 Yes
 No


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


3.
Manages frequency assignment and control of local operating frequencies. Provides technical guidance and direction for different aspects of radio frequency spectrum analysis. Determines the compatibility of frequency assignments for fixed station and/or mobile radio, radar, satellite links, and other systems used by the military. Coordinates frequency assignments with unit spectrum managers, local Spectrum Managers, ANG Headquarters, MAJCOM Spectrum Management personnel and other agencies such as Federal Aviation Agency. Utilizes automated software tools to manage spectrum for associated squadrons. Conducts transmission path analysis (path profiling) with various computerized programs. Determines mission requirements and requests hardware and network configuration resources, such as: Internet Protocol addresses, voice switch and data link configurations, etc from internal and external agencies to support contingency and/or training networks.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


4.
Develops recommendations or proposals involving a variety of specialized systems and state-of-the art enhancements designed to meet unique tactical requirements and improve operational efficiency. Performs in-depth analysis of systems related to proposals for change, in order to develop or modify information systems to meet tactical network user requirements. Determines applicability of established methods. Gathers facts about the nature of the work involved in the user's application area, flow of work, processing actions, and work product(s). Provides technical advice to users. Examines and evaluates alternative means of satisfying user requirements. Suggests technically feasible approaches and makes recommendations regarding the most effective and efficient approaches.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙