Position Title
Practical Nurse/Vocational Nurse
Agency
Defense Health Agency
Announcement Number
HSJW-26-12811695-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Saturday, October 4, 2025 to Tuesday, February 3, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. White Sands Missile Range, NM
 B. White Sands Missile Range, NM
 C. White Sands Missile Range, NM
 D. White Sands Missile Range, NM
 E. White Sands Missile Range, NM
 F. Bell County, TX
 G. Corpus Christi, TX
 H. Corpus Christi, TX
 I. El Paso, TX
 J. El Paso County, TX
 K. Fort Bliss, TX
 L. Fort Hood, TX
 M. Fort Sam Houston, TX
 N. Fort Worth, TX
 O. Kingsville, TX
 P. Lackland AFB, TX
 Q. Randolph AFB, TX
 R. San Antonio, TX


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
6


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Practical or Vocational Nurse position with Department of Defense. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you meet the basic eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
The Practical or Vocational Nurse occupation requires a current license to practice as a practical or vocational nurse in a State or territory of the United States or the District of Columbia, or you have applied for a license to practice. No person appointed pending licensure may be retained beyond the probationary period if licensure has not been attained. Do you possess a current license or have you applied for a license to practice as a practical or vocational nurse in a State or territory of the United States or the District of Columbia? (Note: You must (1) attach a certified or photostatic copy of your license, a notarized statement attesting to the fact, or a citation of the license number and State issuing it; OR (2) furnish the date on which you applied for a license and the jurisdiction involved.)

 Yes
 No


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Practical/Vocational Nurse at the GS-05 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of nursing experience in a hospital, outpatient clinic, nursing home, or other supervised medical, nursing, or patient care facility that provided a practical knowledge of human body structure and sterile techniques and procedures, performing such duties as: measuring patient's vital signs, administering immunizations or medications via various routes and screening or updating patient medical records.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Practical/Vocational Nurse at the GS-06 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of nursing experience in a hospital, outpatient clinic, nursing home, or other supervised medical, nursing, or patient care facility that provided a practical knowledge of human body structure and sterile techniques and procedures, performing such duties as: taking vital signs, performing behavioral health screenings, documenting in patient health records, providing individuals nursing care, administering oxygen, IV fluid and prescribed medications, performing routine procedures, such as EKGs, eye, throat, nasal and/or wound cultures, dressing changes, ear irrigation, and application of bandages.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙