Position Title
Recreation Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTB-12753987-25-VES Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, June 27, 2025 to Tuesday, July 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
2. Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
3. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements. Grandfather Provision: A Recreation or Creative Arts Therapist employed in VHA on the effective date of the qualification standard (06/07/2019) who did not meet all the basic requirements in this standard may not be promoted beyond the full performance level (GS-0638-11) or be newly placed in supervisory or managerial positions until meeting the full qualification requirements.
1. Education: Please select the appropriate response to indicate how you meet the education requirement for the Recreation Therapist occupation.

Transcripts must be submitted (unofficial are sufficient).

Foreign Education: To be creditable, education completed outside the US must have been submitted to a private organization that specializes in the interpretation of foreign education credentials. The private organization must deem such education at least equivalent to that gained in conventional US programs.
 A. I have a bachelor’s degree or higher from an accredited college or university, with a major in therapeutic recreation or recreation/leisure, with an option and/or emphasis in therapeutic recreation. This degree is approved by the National Council for Therapeutic Recreation Certification (NCTRC).
 B. I have a bachelor’s degree or higher in any field from an accredited college or university AND am a Certified Therapeutic Recreation Specialist (CTRS). This degree is approved by the National Council for Therapeutic Recreation Certification (NCTRC).
 C. I meet the grandfathering provision. I was employed by the VHA as a Recreation Therapist on the effective date of the qualification standard (June 7, 2019) and have remained employed in that position.
 D. I do not meet the education requirement.
2. Certification: Applicants must be certified in recreation therapy as a Certified Therapeutic Recreation Specialist (CTRS) by the National Council for Therapeutic Recreation Certification (NCTRC).

Certification can not be waived if bachelor's degree is not in therapeutic recreation or recreation/leisure, with an option and/or emphasis in therapeutic recreation.

Please select the appropriate response. Please ensure that you submit a copy of current certification if applicable.
 A. I am certified in recreation therapy as a Certified Therapeutic Recreation Specialist (CTRS) by the National Council for Therapeutic Recreation Certification (NCTRC).
 B. I meet the grandfathering provision. I was employed by the VHA as a Recreation Therapist on the effective date of the qualification standard (June 7, 2019) and have remained employed in that position.
 C. I do not meet the certification requirement.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. English Language Proficiency: Applicants must be proficient in spoken and written English, as required by 38 USC 7403(f).

Do you meet this requirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. GS-11 Grade Level Requirement:

Applicants must have at least one (1) year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade level. To be creditable, the experience must have required the use of the knowledge, skills and abilities associated with current recreation therapy practice. Experience may be paid or non-paid employment as a recreation therapist in the health care field.

At the GS-9 level, Recreation Therapists serve in a developmental position. They work under general supervision to perform work in a clinical environment. They may: conduct patient evaluations; analyze and interpret leisure, cognitive, and motor skill assessment data to develop individualized goal, objectives, and treatment plan of care; develop and select interventions to achieve patient goals; review patient progress; adapt or adjust the treatment plan and intervention strategize; implement therapeutic interventions that support measurable functional outcomes; evaluate patient needs for additional, alternative or termination of services; document patient's behavioral observations, progress, functioning, and intervention outcomes; and develop collaborative services with other team members.

At the GS-9 level, the following knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) are demonstrated:
Knowledge of assessment tools and treatment for the diagnosis or disability of the patient.
Knowledge to interpret and apply all health and safety regulations, to minimize and mitigate risks in the provisions of patient care, and environmental maintenance.
Ability to effectively communicate and educate patients, families, caregivers, and other health care professionals to facilitate the treatment process.
Knowledge to apply evidence-based and best practice therapeutic techniques and interventions.

Additionally, applicants must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Ability to adapt assessment tools and treatment interventions to address the complexity of the diagnosis or disabilities and demonstrate the clinical reasoning necessary to identify the need for further in-depth specific assessment of function and utilization of unconventional methods and techniques.
Knowledge to independently interpret provider referrals and consults; and apply all health and safety regulations to minimize and mitigate risks in the provision of patient care and the environment of care.
Skill in effectively communicating and educating, in a clear and concise manner, with patients, families, caregivers, and other health care professionals to facilitate the interdisciplinary treatment process.
Skill in independently utilizing appropriate screening and evaluation techniques required to appropriately provide direct patient care in areas such as, but not limited to recommendations for recreation therapy assistive devices, including fit and function.
Skill in independently applying evidence-based and best practice therapeutic techniques and interventions.
Knowledge of the principles and techniques in recreation therapy assessment and the treatment of recreation, leisure, and biopsychosocial functional deficits.

Do you meet this experience requirement? Please ensure that your resume fully details this experience. Failure to do so may result in an not qualified rating.
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
REMINDER - You must provide a complete application package which includes: Application for Associated Health Occupations, CV or Resume, Proof of current certification, licensure or registration, and/or Copy of Transcripts (Unofficial is sufficient).
RESUME REMINDER:Your resume must include the following information each job listed: Job title; Duties (be as detailed as possible); Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008); Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week); Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications.To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected