Position Title
Supervisory Wildland Firefighter (Regional Fire Management Officer) - Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Interior, Bureau of Indian Affairs
Announcement Number
DHA-25-12802965-CBXH-JAR Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 17, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This position is subject to the Indian Preference Act of 1934 (25 U.S.C. 472), which affords employment preference to qualified Native American candidates.  Proof of eligibility, in the form of a completed Verification of Indian Preference, BIA - 4432 Form, must be provided with your application by the closing date to be granted such preference.  

Are you claiming Indian Preference, and submitting your BIA-4432 Form?
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Bloomington, MN
 B. Grand Rapids, MN
2. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Preference in filling vacancies is given to qualified Indian candidates in accordance with the Indian Preference Act of 1934 (Title 25, USC, Section 472). Verification of Form BIA-4432 must be submitted with the application if claiming Indian Preference.
1. Are you submitting Form BIA-4432, Verification of Indian Preference for Employment in the Bureau of Indian Affairs, to claim Indian Preference? Note: You must include your Form BIA-4432. As outlined in the vacancy announcement, this is the ONLY Indian Preference Verification Form that will be accepted.
 A. Yes, I am submitting Form BIA-4432.
 B. No, I am not claiming Indian preference.
This position has been designated as an Incidental Operator under the Indian Affairs Motor Vehicle Safety Program and requires the incumbent to operate a motor vehicle to properly carry out his/her assigned duties but whose principal duties are not operating a motor vehicle and his/her position is not classified as a motor vehicle operator. The incumbent will be required initially and annually to acknowledge and certify possession of a valid state driver's license.
2. Do you possess a current, valid driver's license?

 A. Yes, I certify that I possess a current, valid driver’s license.
 B. No, I do not possess a current, valid driver’s license.
SECONDARY-ADMINISTRATIVE COVERAGE
3. This position is covered under the secondary/administrative firefighter special retirement provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8336(c)(CSRS) and 5 U.S.C. 8412(d)(FERS) when it is filled by an incumbent who transfers directly from a primary or another secondary law enforcement or firefighting position with no break in service to this position. Firefighter retirement coverage of the incumbent will depend upon his or her individual work history. You may meet the qualification requirements but not be eligible for special retirement coverage. If you are not eligible for special retirement coverage, you will be placed in the regular retirement system.

Do you understand that you may meet the position qualification requirements, but not meet special retirement coverage eligibility and in that case, if selected, you will be placed in the regular retirement code?
 A. YES
 B. NO
PRIOR WILDLAND FIREFIGHTING EXPERIENCE
4. This is an administrative position in an organization having a firefighting mission and is clearly in an established career path. Prior firefighting experience, as gained by substantial service in a primary firefighter position or equivalent experience outside the Federal government is a MANDATORY PREREQUISITE. Wildland firefighting experience is required to meet qualifications for secondary (administrative) covered positions. The Department of Interior defines wildland firefighting experience as: On-the-line wildland firefighting experience gained through containment, control, suppression, or use of wildland fire. Wildland fire is defined as any non-structure fire that occurs in the wildland. Two distinct types of wildland fire have been defined and include wildfire and prescribed fires as follows: 1) Wildfires - unplanned ignitions or prescribed fires that are declared wildfires; 2) Prescribed Fires - Planned ignitions. This description includes only fireline experience on a Prescribed Fire; it does not include experience in the planning stages. Prescribed fire experience must be supplemented by fire suppression experience in order to be creditable as previous wildland firefighting experience.

Do you have prior wildland firefighting experience as described above?
 A. YES
 B. NO
INTERAGENCY FIRE PROGRAM MANAGEMENT (IFPM): This position is one of the key fire management positions under the Interagency Fire Program Management (IFPM) Standard. This position has been categorized as a Geographic Area Fire Program Manager, and requires the following selective factors: Task Force Leader (TFLD) or higher AND Incident Commander Type 3 (ICT3) -OR- Type 2 Command and General Staff (T2 C&G) -OR- Prescribed Fire Burn Boss Type 2 (RXB2) or higher AND required training: M-581, Fire Program Management-an Overview or M-582, Fire Program Management-Leading Complex Programs. 
You must provide a current copy of your Incident Qualification and Certification System (IQCS) Master Record or other agency equivalent documentation which verifies you meet the required NWCG qualifications for this position when submitting your application. Please indicate which of the following qualifications or training certificates you possess:
5. Primary Core Requirement: I have held or currently hold the following NWCG qualification: Task Force Leader (TFLD) or higher. I will provide a copy of my IQCS master record or equivalent documentation as instructed in the vacancy announcement.

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Secondary Core Requirement: I have held or currently hold ONE of the following NWCG qualifications: Incident Commander Type 3 (ICT3) -OR- Type 2 Command and General Staff (T2 C&G) -OR- Prescribed Fire Burn Boss Type 2 (RXB2) or higher. I will provide a copy of my IQCS master record or equivalent documentation as instructed in the vacancy announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Required Training: I have completed ONE of the following NWCG training courses: M-581, Fire Program Management-an Overview; -OR- M-582, Fire Program Management-Leading Complex Programs.

 A. Yes
 B. No
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE:  You must meet the specialized experience requirements comparable in scope and responsibility to the next lower level in the federal service. Please note that your answers may be verified against the information you provide in your resume/application and information your references provide. The quality, type, and scope of your experience and/or training must demonstrate that you are fully qualified to perform the duties of the position to be filled. Be sure you describe your background as it relates to the duties of this position since your application or resume must support the response you select.

8. Carefully read the following description of experience. Select the one that best describes your qualifications for this Supervisory Wildland Firefighter (Regional Fire Program Manager), GW-13. Make sure your resume supports the response that you select.
 A. I have at least one year of specialized wildland fire management work experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service that includes directing and supervising a fire management program that is responsible for wildland fire management. Examples of specialized experience include, but are not limited to, performing duties such as providing direction in development of fire management plans and budget formulation; evaluating projects and activities to meet fire and land management objectives; interpreting national policy for use of automated fire and aviation systems; developing cooperative agreements; monitoring tribal resolutions; participating in multi-agency coordinating group; formulate, develop, implement policy and procedures related to prescribed fire and fuels treatment; overseeing a fire protection program such as fire prevention, pre-suppression, suppression, and post suppression activities; providing guidance on safety standards in fire and aviation programs; participating in accident investigations; developing safety plans; overseeing fire trespass policies and procedures. Working closely with multiple units and interagency partners, jurisdiction boundaries, multi-land base areas, and tribes to develop inter- and intra-agency agreements. Developing, reviewing and evaluating complex fire management plans for ecological soundness or consistency with land management goals and/or potentially adverse impacts to cultural and natural resources; conducting field inspections before and after prescribed or wildland fires to determine if resource objectives were achieved and/or evaluating the effectiveness of actions taken; analyzing the ecological role of fire and its use and/or exclusion, and smoke management.
 B. I do not have the specialized experience as described above but am eager to learn.
9. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected