Position Title
LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12822319-AF-26-002 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 23, 2025 to Sunday, November 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1, 2 and 3 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA AIR NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-1172.


2.
Are you an enlisted member or Officer in the grades of E3 - E9 or O1; or willing to accept a commissioning opportunity ?
 Yes. I am an enlisted member in the grades of E3 - E9.
 Yes. I am an Officer in the grades of O1.
 No. I am not an Officer in the grades of O1; however I am willing to accept a commissioning opportunity and understand that I must submit my college transcripts with this application.
 No. I am not Enlisted or an Officer in the grades of E3 - E9 or O1.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Air National Guard.


3.
APPLICANTS MUST BE ABLE TO OBTAIN AN MINIMUM OF A SECRET CLEARANCE TO BE CONSIDERED ELIGIBLE. Do you currently possess a Secret or higher security clearance, OR ABLE TO OBTAIN a Secret Clearance?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer all question accurately and to the best of your ability.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess experience, education or training involving judgment and/or analytical ability in the logistics field; experience using computer and automation systems?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess at least 1 year experience at the previous lower grade or equivalent experience and education with identifying activities involving logistical support operations; experience integrating the actions of a variety of specialized support activities in order to develop a comprehensive logistics plan; experience monitoring such functions as program planning, resource and fiscal management, training, manpower management, and/or automated data processing to meet the logistics plan; experience identifying delays or problems and developing corrective actions; experience working with people from various levels and backgrounds to elicit their cooperation to perform specific tasks, and complying with regulations, laws, or practices.
 Yes
 No


3.
Describe a time when you were responsible for analyzing complex plans (OPLANs, CONPLANs, EXORDs) to determine the impact on wing or unit tasking.

What challenges did you encounter in identifying shortfalls or limiting factors, and how did you communicate these to leadership?


4.
Tell me about a situation where you had to quickly adapt to changing deployment requirements or unexpected logistical challenges.

What steps did you take to assess the situation, coordinate resources (ANG/AMC/TMO), and ensure personnel and equipment arrived on time?


5.
Describe a time when you identified a problem with deployment training or readiness reporting within a unit.

What approach did you take to provide guidance and assistance, and what was the outcome of your efforts?


6.
Share an example of a time when you had to represent your organization at a higher-level planning conference (e.g., NGB, MAJCOM).

How did you ensure your organization's logistical needs and resource requirements were effectively communicated and considered?


7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.

 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙