Position Title
Registered Respiratory Therapist-Specialty Care
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTD-12816447-26-DM Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, October 21, 2025 to Friday, November 7, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Registered Respiratory Therapist position with the Department of Veterans Affairs. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS: To qualify for appointment as an RRT, all applicants must possess the following:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency. RRTs appointed to direct patient-care positions must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by
38 U.S.C. ? 7403(f).Are you proficient in written and spoken English?

Are you proficient in written and spoken English?

 Yes
 No


2.
Education: Completion of a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor.

Do you meet the education requirement?

 Yes
 No


3.
Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your respiratory care program/degree. If you do not have a respiratory care program/degree indicate N/A.

Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree:
Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Licensure: Do you have a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an Registered Respiratory Therapist?

 Yes
 No


5.
Please provide your license information. If you do not have a license indicate N/A.

Name on License:
Issuing state or territory:
Complete license number:
Expiration date:



6.
Credential: Do you possess a valid, current, unrestricted credential of an RRT?

Exception: RT positions will be designated only to individuals who are in the process of obtaining credentials to become an RRT. These individuals will only be hired on a temporary appointment as provided below:

(a) VHA may waive the RRT credential requirement for persons who are otherwise qualified and pending completion of prerequisites for RRT credential. Individuals who have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor, acquired the CRT credential, are fully licensed by their state and are working toward completion of their RRT credential may be given a temporary appointment as an RT. The temporary appointment is made under the authority of 38 U.S.C. ? 7401(a)(1)(B) for a period not to exceed one year from date of employment. Candidates must hold an active, current, full and unrestricted RRT credential and be licensed to hold a position at or above the GS-07 level.
(b) RTs may only be temporarily appointed at the GS-05 level and may not be promoted/converted to a higher-level position as an RRT until the RRT credential is received.
(c) RTs must provide care only under the close supervision of an RRT.
(d) Temporary RT appointments may not be extended beyond one year or converted to a new temporary appointment.

Failure to Obtain Credential: In all cases, RTs must actively pursue meeting national prerequisites for the RRT credential from the first day of their appointment. Failure to become credentialed within one year from date of appointment will result in removal from the GS-0601 RT series and may result in termination of employment. The Human Resources (HR) Office staff will provide RTs, in writing, the requirement to 1) obtain their RRT credential; 2) the date by which the RRT credential must be acquired; and 3) the consequences for not becoming RRT credentialed by the deadline. The HR Office staff must provide the written notice to selectees prior to entrance on duty date and maintain a copy in the electronic Official Personnel Folder.

 Yes
 No


Grade Determinations. In addition to the basic requirements for employment above, all individuals referred and assigned to this occupation must meet all the qualification requirements and KSAs defined in the specific assignment as follows:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
GS 05: Registered Respiratory Therapist

(a) Experience. None beyond the basic requirements.
(b) Education and Licensure. This level assignment is designated as temporary for individuals who have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor, acquired the CRT credential, licensed by their state and are working towards obtaining RRT credential.

Do you meet the basic requirements for the GS-5 grade level?

 Yes
 No


8.
GS 07: Registered Respiratory Therapist

(a) Experience, Education, Licensure and Registration. In addition to the basic requirements, candidates must possess their RRT credential.
(b) In addition to the requirements above, GS-07 candidates must demonstrate all the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):
Ability to perform therapeutic modalities related to respiratory care.
Skill in analyzing physiological specimens obtained to include arterial blood gases, pulse oximetry, End tidal Co2 (ETCo2) monitoring, basic spirometry and other basic diagnostic procedures.
Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals for respiratory care to help provide favorable patient outcomes.
Skill in assessing oxygenation and ventilation.

Do you meet the experience, licensure, registration and are you able to demonstrate all of the above Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities?

 Yes
 No


9.
9. GS 07: Registered Respiratory Therapist

GS 07: Registered Respiratory Therapist

Experience, Education, Licensure and Registration. In addition to the basic requirements, candidates must possess their RRT credential.

 In addition to the requirements above, GS-07 candidates must demonstrate all the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):

A. Ability to perform therapeutic modalities related to respiratory care.
B. Skill in analyzing physiological specimens obtained to include arterial blood gases, pulse oximetry, End tidal Co2 (ETCo2) monitoring, basic spirometry and other basic diagnostic procedures.
C. Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals for respiratory care to help provide favorable patient outcomes.
D. Skill in assessing oxygenation and ventilation.
E. Ability to perform basic airway management to include artificial airways and mechanical ventilation.

Do you meet the experience, licensure, registration and are you able to demonstrate all of the above Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities?




 Yes
 No


10.
Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your Master of Science degree. If you do not have degree indicate N/A.

Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree:
Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:



11.
In addition to the requirements above, GS-09 candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs:

 Skill in performing therapeutic modalities related to respiratory care.
 Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals to help provide favorable patient outcomes.
 Skill in assessing oxygenation and ventilation.
 Ability to perform airway management to include artificial airways and mechanical ventilation. Are you able to demonstrate all of the above Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities?


12.
GS 11: Registered Respiratory Therapist, candidates must have:

 One year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level. Clinical competencies include but are not limited to: obtain, interpret and analyze physiological specimens and data; consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals to ensure quality of patient care within area of specialty; manage and maintain the airway and ventilation of the patient through the use of appropriate mechanical means; assess and evaluate patients to determine and recommend intervention to develop and implement a plan of care, such as, implementing protocols, intubation, monitoring critical systems and uses advanced modes of ventilation; provide outpatient services such as home ventilators, PAP therapy, oxygen therapy and COPD care; AND
 Hold an active license and RRT credential. Do you possess the requirements above?


13.
In addition to the requirements above, GS-11 candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs:

 Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals for complex respiratory care to develop care plans to provide favorable patient outcomes.
 Skill in evaluating the efficacies of therapeutic modalities.
 Skill in performing advanced airway and ventilation management. Are you able to demonstrate all of the above KSAs?


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙