Position Title
Director Emergency Management and National Security
Agency
Office of the Chief Administrative Officer
Announcement Number
25-HUD-12769443 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 28, 2025 to Monday, August 4, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency covered by an OPM Interchange agreement that conveys noncompetitive eligibility?

For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=InterchangeAgreementsWithOtherMeritSystems

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following merit promotion categories?
Current Federal civilian employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current Excepted service employee covered by an Interchange Agreement
Former Federal employee with Reinstatement eligibility
Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA)
Current Federal employee serving on a VRA appointment
Land Management Employee eligible under Public Law 114-47
Other competitive category not listed above (you must submit proof of eligibility)
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you eligible to be appointed under the Military Spouse Noncompetitive Appointing Authority based on any of the following categories?
You are the spouse of an active duty member of the Armed Forces.
You are the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs.
You are the widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status, and you have not re-married.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources. (https://www.usajobs.gov/Veterans)

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a former federal employee that has been separated for at least one full year and is eligible to be non-competitively reinstated to a higher grade or full-performance level than which you left federal employment?
(Note: you MUST provide:  1) a copy of your separation SF-50 (the "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2"); AND 2) the last performance appraisal you received from your federal employment which shows at least a fully successful rating.)

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Do you currently hold (or have you previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you eligible under any other miscellaneous appointing authority not listed thus far, such as (but not all inclusive to):
Postal Career Service Employee;
Postal Rate Commission Employee;
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; 
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee; or 
Foreign overseas employee or eligible family member of former overseas employee
 For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=MiscellaneousAuthoritiesNotRegulated .  To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

For more information on Foreign overseas employment please review the following: https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#NontemporaryForeignService or https://www.state.gov/global-community-liaison-office/family-member-employment/family-member-employment-in-the-d-c-area/non-competitive-eligibility-nce/#NCE5
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you eligible for consideration as a Peace Corps, VISTA, or Action volunteer?  If you select this option, you are required to provide acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility by submitting proof of employment from the appropriate agency with your completed application.
National Service (Peace Corps and VISTA)

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
3. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
5. I am interested in having my application shared with other HUD hiring managers. I understand that electing this option will not impact my chances of selection from this vacancy announcement and does not guarantee that a similar vacancy announcement will be opened by another hiring manager for which I can be considered or selected. Please select one or more of the following HUD Program Offices that you authorize to receive your application information. If you do not wish for your application to be shared, please select "Please do not share my application information with other HUD hiring managers.
 A. Center for Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships
 B. Congressional/Intergovernmental Relations
 C. Ginnie Mae (GNMA)
 D. Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration
 E. Office of the Chief Financial Officer (OCFO)
 F. Office of the Chief Human Capital Officer (OCHCO)
 G. Office of the Chief Information Officer (OCIO)
 H. Office of the Chief Procurement Officer (OCPO)
 I. Office of Community Planning and Development (CPD)
 J. Office of Departmental Equal Employment Opportunity (ODEEO)
 K. Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity (FHEO)
 L. Office of Field Policy and Management (FPM)
 M. Office of General Counsel (OGC)
 N. Office of Housing
 O. Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes (OLHCHH)
 P. Office of Policy Development and Research (PD&R)
 Q. Office of Public Affairs (OPA)
 R. Office of the Secretary
 S. Public and Indian Housing (PIH)
 T. Please do not share my application information with other HUD hiring managers.
6. How did you find out about this position?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other
7. Please provide any specifics on your response(s) above.
Performance Appraisal
1. As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of all pages of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal, dated within the last 12 months, that includes the final rating. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these specific requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so in the next question. If you do not provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application, you will need to provide a reason in the text box below.

(Note: If you answer "NO" to this question, you must provide a reason as to why you were not able to provide a performance appraisal in the text box of the following question)

Have you submitted a copy of all pages of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal, dated within the last 12 months, that includes the final rating?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. If you answered "NO" to the previous question, please provide a reason as to why you were not able to provide a performance appraisal in the text box below.
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
For the GS-15, you must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes: - Experience coordinating with senior-level representatives across government agencies; AND - Managing classified national security programs; AND - Providing expert guidance on emergency management, intelligence, and physical security operations; AND - Overseeing, developing, and implementing Continuity of Operations Plans (COOP) and emergency response plans and policies.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you meet the specialized experience statement as stated above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Please specify where the above experience is documented in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties). (limit 250 characters)
3. Which statement best describes your experience in managing the Security Monitoring and Reporting Program which provides an on-going review and assessment of the security posture of an organizations information environments and resources and reports of conditions that form the basis for corrective action.
 A. I have no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 C. have managed performance of this task or I am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
4. Which statement best describes your experience managing Continuity of Operations Plans and related processes to ensure operational effectiveness and efficiency with a spectrum of other Federal agencies.
 A. I have not had the experience, education, or training performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing on operations, and policies for this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on joint initiatives on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have provided support for interagency and joint initiatives, operations, and policies on this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
5. Choose the statement(s) that describe(s) your experience communicating security related information to diverse groups. (Select all that apply.)
 A. I have verbally presented justifications and recommendations to management officials (to include political staff) on controversial decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations.
 B. I have delivered formal presentations or training sessions concerning personnel security.
 C. I have been successful in persuading program managers and other decision-making officials, with differing goals and interests, to follow my suggestions and recommended courses of action.
 D. I have participated in meetings to discuss security issues, present findings, and resolve material security problems.
 E. I have provided advice to managers on security program operations, policies, and requirements.
 F. I have recommended remedial action to correct existing or potential problems.
 G. None of the above.
6. Which of the following best indicates your experience adhering to standard protocol in responding to security related incidents (i.e., containing, resolving, reporting, and documenting security incidents)?
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have normally been consulted by others for expertise and assistance or have trained others in this task.
7. Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of managerial/supervisory experience.
 A. I have experience serving as a Team/Project Leader with responsibility for communicating goals and priorities, developing assignments, establishing deadlines, providing feedback and coaching, and ensuring that completed assignments meet established standards and program requirements.
 B. I have experience providing direction and supervision to a staff of journeyman-level personnel which included responsibility for establishing performance standards, expectations, and deadlines; prioritizing work; resolving conflicts and complaints; managing workload distribution; reviewing and approving completed assignments; evaluating performance; recruiting and hiring; and promoting EEO principles and practices.
 C. I have experience managing an organization with subordinate managers reporting directly to me. Responsibilities included establishing program priorities, budgeting, and internal controls; allocation of resources; measuring program performance; and ensuring program goals align with organizational goals.
 D. I have executive managerial experience with responsibility for establishing and reinforcing broad organizational goals, vision, and program priorities; ensuring that sound strategic and operational plans are established, including multi-year planning; enforcing accountability for organizational performance; and enlisting support and buy-in from external parties for the organization's programs.
 E. None of the above.
8. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe your experience managing, directing, and administering program(s) in an emergency management organization.
 A. I have managed, directed, and administered programs in an emergency management organization.
 B. I have established goals and monitored progress towards achieving those goals in an emergency management organization.
 C. I have established short-range plans and objectives for the accomplishments of an emergency management program.
 D. I have established long-range plans and objectives for an emergency management program, considering the possible changes in program direction and new and/or emerging laws.
 E. I have developed and approved emergency management program procedures and practices.
 F. I have promoted emergency management programs and provided information and expert advice to a variety of senior officials.
 G. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
9. I have applied analytical and evaluation practices, theories, methods, and techniques to provide recommendations to determine best suited product for the project, taking into consideration functionality, security and budgetary needs.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Please select the response that best describes your experience establishing objectives and performance goals based on changing requirements.
 A. I have experience developing and monitoring goals for a multi-tiered organization with diverse program objectives. Experience included independently establishing target dates, planning work to be accomplished, and achieving goals for varied programs, which were subject to outside influence and interest.
 B. I have experience formulating programmatic and performance goals within a single-tiered organization or program. Experience included coordinating changes to establish target dates with higher-level management and ensuring that the assigned program objectives were achieved.
 C. I have experience assuring that programs are operating in accordance with set policies, standards, and procedures and those operating goals, deadlines, and service requirements were achieved.
 D. None of the above.
11. Select the choice the best represents your experience overseeing development of Emergency Planning Program priorities, annual plans, objectives, and milestones.
 A. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing the task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or a senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise.
12. From the description below, choose the response that best describes your ability to develop, implement and test HSPD-12 related Physical Security Policy and standards.
 A. I have served as a technical expert in the development, implementation and testing of HSPD-12 related Physical Security Policies and standards.
 B. I have analyzed simple programmatic issues relating to HSPD-12 related Security Policy and standards.
 C. I have identified, diagnosed and developed effective solutions related to HSPD-12 Security Policies and standards.
 D. I have assisted in the development, implementation and testing of HSPD-12 related Security Policies and standards.
 E. I have no experience performing this task.
13. Choose the statement(s) that describe your demonstrated experience with supervising security programs and initiatives.
 A. I have experience supervising physical security personnel in conducting risk and threat assessments for a building or facility.
 B. I have supervised physical security personnel in managing physical security programs and projects in a building or facility.
 C. I have supervised a personnel security program that involves investigations of new hires and employees.
 D. None of the above.
14. Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience solving problems?
 A. I have identified and analyzed problem; distinguished between relevant and irrelevant information to make rational decisions.
 B. I have experience solving problems that require developing cooperation, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus.
 C. I have experience solving problems that require analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse individuals, and reaching solutions on controversial issues.
 D. I have experience solving problems that require agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, and interacting with individuals constructively.
 E. None of the above.
15. Choose the response that most accurately reflects your capability in judgment and decision making.
 A. I have used available information and judgment to arrive at a course of action to meet the parameters, timelines, and deadlines of the situation.
 B. I have used available information and judgment to arrive at a course of action to meet the parameters, timelines, and deadlines of the situation; anticipated the impacts and implications of the alternatives; taken appropriate action without over analyzing; and used various decision tools and techniques for analyzing and weighing information.
 C. I have led others in decision analysis and decision making approaches. I have used available information and judgment to arrive at a course of action to meet the parameters, timelines, and deadlines of the situation; anticipated the impacts and implications of the alternatives; taken appropriate action without over analyzing; and used various decision tools and techniques for analyzing and weighing information.
 D. I have used available information and judgment to arrive at a course of action to meet the parameters, timelines, and deadlines of the situation; anticipated the impacts and implications of the alternatives; and taken appropriate action without over analyzing.
 E. None of the above.
16. Do you have experience coordinating and managing internal and external stakeholders in identifying mechanisms for implementing policies and processes?
 A. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not performed it on the job.
 B. I have performed this task on the job. My work was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 C. I perform this task as a regular part of my job and my work is only reviewed for highly complex projects.
 D. I have trained others in the performance of this task.
 E. I have no experience performing this task.
17. From the following list, select all of the formal managerial, supervisory, or team lead duties you have performed as part of your official responsibilities in a position.
 A. I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates, set and adjusted priorities, and prepared schedules for the completion of work.
 B. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees.
 C. I have been responsible for first line supervision or team lead to employees.
 D. I have developed performance standards and evaluated employees' work.
 E. I have instructed employees on both program work and administrative matters.
 F. I have interviewed candidates for positions.
 G. I have worked with employees to identify their developmental and training needs based on organizational goals and budget realities.
 H. I have followed necessary steps when an employee's performance did not improve.
 I. I have not performed any of the above tasks.
18. Select the choice(s) that most accurately reflects your experience with respect to planning and evaluating.
 A. I have developed an approach to monitor and report on activities with the guidance of my supervisor.
 B. I have managed a projects issues, risks, and requirements in order to ensure that the project progresses appropriately.
 C. I have monitored and created reports to provide updates on a projects issues, risks, status, and requirements to organizational leadership.
 D. I have determined short- or long-term goals and strategies to achieve them.
 E. I have coordinated with other organizations or parts of the organization to accomplish goal.
 F. None of the above.
19. Select all of the following statements that describe your experience performing internal controls reviews and assessments to determine effectiveness and efficiency of operations and compliance with laws and regulations.
 A. I have conducted internal controls reviews and assessments to determine effectiveness of operations and compliance with laws and regulations.
 B. I have planned and carried out projects to improve and enhance internal controls.
 C. I have examined and tested management controls and financial records to determine compliance with laws and regulations.
 D. I have collected, analyzed, evaluated, and interpreted data.
 E. None of the above.
20. Choose the response(s) that best describes your experience improving security and emergency management programs. Select all that apply.
 A. I have developed and implemented objectives, goals and priorities for an organization based on the agency's (or equivalent organization) overall goals and mission.
 B. I have prioritized my work assignments and the work assignments of staff to meet changing demands and goals.
 C. have reviewed policy recommendations made by staff to make improvements to existing policy and processes and made decisions on the recommendations that should be accepted, rejected or modified.
 D. I have overseen the development of policy and put in place analytical and evaluative methods for analyzing program performance.
 E. None of the above.
21. From the choices below, please select all of the responses that reflect your experience in developing and evaluating an organization's operational and management strategies, policies, and programs.
 A. I have managed a full range of management and related administrative programs.
 B. I have evaluated existing and proposed changes to an Agency's or company's rules, regulations, procedures, or policies, identifying the impact on program accounting.
 C. have recommended adjustments to meet changing priorities and needs.
 D. I have directed, planned, and conducted studies and prepared analytical reports, recommending new and improved methods of operation or uses of existing resources and programs.
 E. I have developed or revised program delegations needed to carry out the program and administrative activities.
 F. I have ensured that program offices met goals and carried out activities in accordance with the strategic plan, other work plan directives, and priorities.
 G. I have directed the activities required to execute and maintain an administrative operating budget.
 H. I have developed long-term and short-term goals for the office.
 I. None of the above.
22. Choose the statement(s) that describe your demonstrated experience in implementing new and improved security methods.
 A. I have identified critical issues in need of improvement.
 B. I have developed methods and approaches for gathering data.
 C. I have evaluated program criteria.
 D. I have applied analytical techniques to review data and processes.
 E. None of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected