Position Title
2nd Assistant Engineer PLD CL 1
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERG2612810069DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 3, 2025 to Wednesday, November 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Second Assistant Engineer PLD CL 1 position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Second Assistant Engineer PLD CL 1 XH-4742-09 duties without more than normal supervision.

 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Second Assistant Engineer PLD CL 1 tasks. I am skilled in conducting occasional inspections of machinery and observes gauges, checking oil levels, motor generators, gearbox, generator temperatures, fuel levels, etc.; checking and controlling operation of heating, refrigerating, plumbing, and water supply systems for the dredge; investigating and determining the cause and remedial action necessary when noting unusual or unnatural condition in machinery operations; advising Chief Engineer and taking corrective action in accordance with his instructions; and assisting in making repairs to engine room and auxiliary machinery. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of Second Assistant Engineer PLD CL 1 tasks. I am skilled in conducting occasional inspections of machinery and observes gauges, checking oil levels, motor generators, gearbox, generator temperatures, fuel levels, etc.; checking and controlling operation of heating, refrigerating, plumbing, and water supply systems for the dredge; investigating and determining the cause and remedial action necessary when noting unusual or unnatural condition in machinery operations; advising Chief Engineer and taking corrective action in accordance with his instructions; and assisting in making repairs to engine room and auxiliary machinery. I work on my own initiative under minimal supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common Second Assistant Engineer PLD CL 1 tasks. I can conduct occasional inspections of machinery and observes gauges, checking oil levels, motor generators, gearbox, generator temperatures, fuel levels, etc.; checking and controlling operation of heating, refrigerating, plumbing, and water supply systems for the dredge; investigating and determining the cause and remedial action necessary when noting unusual or unnatural condition in machinery operations; advising Chief Engineer and taking corrective action in accordance with his instructions; and assisting in making repairs to engine room and auxiliary machinery. I normally work under the general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform simple Second Assistant Engineer PLD CL 1 tasks or I have received training on conducting occasional inspections of machinery and observes gauges, checking oil levels, motor generators, gearbox, generator temperatures, fuel levels, etc.; checking and controlling operation of heating, refrigerating, plumbing, and water supply systems for the dredge; investigating and determining the cause and remedial action necessary when noting unusual or unnatural condition in machinery operations; advising Chief Engineer and taking corrective action in accordance with his instructions; and assisting in making repairs to engine room and auxiliary machinery. I work under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙