Position Title
SUPERVISORY GENERAL ENGINEER- Direct Hiring Authority
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-0801-04-12782860-SJB Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 14, 2025 to Saturday, September 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the educational requirements for the positions being filled. See the Qualifications section of the announcement for in-depth information on the educational requirements for all engineering positions. NOTE: YOU MUST PROVIDE A COPY OF YOUR UNOFFICIAL COLLEGE TRANSCRIPTS WHEN APPLYING FOR THESE POSITIONS.
1. From the descriptions below, select the letter that describes the experience or education you have that demonstrates how you meet the basic qualification requirements for engineering positions. You must submit a copy of your unofficial transcripts showing type of degree and date conferred when applying for this position.
 A. I have a Bachelors or higher degree in a professional engineering curriculum from a school that is accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) and I have submitted a copy of my college transcripts.
 B. I have a Bachelors or higher degree in a professional engineering curriculum from a school that is NOT ABET accredited, but my education included differential and integral calculus, as well as courses in at least five of the following seven disciplines: (A) statistics or dynamics, (B) strength of materials (stress, strain relationships), (C) fluid mechanics or hydraulics, (D) thermodynamics, (E) electrical fields and circuits, (F) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties), and (G) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics, and I have submitted a copy of my college transcripts.
 C. I do not have a degree as described in (A) or (B) above, but I am registered as a professional engineer in a State, Guam, Puerto Rico, or the District of Columbia. In addition, I have a combination of education and experience.
 D. I do not have a degree as described in (A) or (B), but I have passed the Engineer in Training (EIT) examination, and in addition, I have a combination of education in the field of engineering and professional engineering experience, and I have provided a copy of my unofficial transcripts and a copy of my EIT certification.
 E. I do not have a degree as described in a (A) or (B) above, but I have completed at least 60 semester hours of course work in the Physical, Mathematical, and Engineering Sciences. This course work included differential and integral calculus, as well as courses in at least five of the seven areas listed in response (B). Also, I have professional engineering experience.
 F. I have a Bachelor or higher degree in engineering technology, chemistry, physics, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, geology, or another scientific field directly related to engineering. In addition, I have several years of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance and I have provided a copy of the completed training plan and my unofficial transcripts.
 G. I do not have any education or experience as described above.
This section will be used to determine if you possess the specialized experience needed to qualify for a General Engineer, NH-0801-04. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.
2. From the description below, choose the one letter beside the statement that best describes your work experience as relevant to the position of General Engineer, NH-0801-04. (NOTE: The selection you make must be supported by a detailed block of work experience in your resume or application). Only experience obtained by the closing date of this announcement will be considered.
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience which is equivalent to Federal experience at the next lower grade (GS-13), level, pay band (NH-03), or equivalent (pay schedule, pay band, etc.). Specialized experience is described as performing functional management in support of projects/programs/initiatives pertaining to science, engineering and technical management across the AF Test Enterprise. Experience should also include development, implementation and maintenance of DT&E policies, processes, systems engineering, T&E capability investment planning and execution, and workforce management across the Center.
 B. I do not have the specialized experience described in above; however, I believe I have the ability to successfully perform the duties of the position.
For each task in the following group, choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training. Please select only one letter for each item.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
3. Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected