Position Title
AIRCRAFT MECHANIC
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
CO-12757476-AR-25-100 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 20, 2025 to Wednesday, September 3, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
National Guard Requirements
1. Are you currently a Permanent Dual Status Military Technician with the AASF?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you an E-3 thru E-9?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you have at least 18 months Specialized Experience installing, adjusting, aligning, troubleshooting, and functionally testing the various major and minor mechanical and pneudraulic systems on an aircraft during overhaul or modification?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you have at least 18 months Specialized Experience coordinating the work of other mechanics, and scheduling maintenance to ensure completion of critical actions and optimum workflow?

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you have at least 18 months Specialized Experience instructing lower graded mechanics, military and other personnel in the disassembly and re-assembly of crash damaged engines, transmissions, gearboxes, hydraulic components, and fuel controls sufficient for the exhibit to be returned to its shipping container?

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Any information given on your resume or information that you declare is a truthful statement can be investigated and subject to UCMJ Action if found falsified. Is the information, on your resume and any documents that you upload, truthful?


 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected