Position Title
SEIZED PROPERTY SPECIALIST
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OFO-IMP-12769618-LBF Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 4, 2025 to Friday, August 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
7
9
2. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-5 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-5 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-5 grade level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-7 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale or I am applying
3. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-7 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-7 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-7 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-9 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
4. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. This position requires the ability to operate a Government Owned Vehicle. Do you have a valid, non-restricted driver's license or will you be able to obtain a valid, non-restricted driver's license before the time of appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
7. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
8. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
9. This vacancy has a local commuting area requirement, as defined below:
The area surrounding the duty station by which people reasonably travel back and forth from home to work; Or
The employee's permanent duty station is located within the reasonable travel area surrounding the duty station of this vacancy; Or if applicable
For employees who are detailed or temporarily promoted (for less than 1 year) to another duty location, the permanent duty location is considered to be the duty location of record for commuting area purposes.
For employees who are detailed or temporarily promoted (for more than 1 year) to another duty location, the detailed or temporary duty location is considered to be the duty location of record for commuting area purposes.
Do you meet the local commuting area requirement?
 A. A. Yes, I meet the local commuting area requirement as defined above.
 B. B. No, I do not meet the local commuting area requirement as defined above.
10. Conviction under Federal, State, or Tribal Court of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or child is disqualifying. An intimate partner means, with respect to a person, the spouse of the person, a former spouse of the person, an individual who is a parent of a child of the person, an individual who cohabitates or has cohabited with the person. Have you ever been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or a child?
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you the subject of any Federal, State, or Tribal court-ordered restraining (protection) order for domestic abuse, including harassing, stalking, or threatening an intimate partner or a child?
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. If selected for this position, you must successfully complete a multi-week training at a designated training facility as outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement. Failure to successfully complete the required training course(s) in accordance with the standards and policies of Customs and Border Protection will be grounds for removal from the position. Such failure will result in either reassignment to a former or different position, demotion, or separation by appropriate procedures.

If you have previously attended this training, the requirement may be waived. If you answer "no" to the training agreement acknowledgment question below, you will be removed from further consideration for this position.

Do you acknowledge the training requirement and agree to the terms outlined in the job opportunity announcement and above?
 A. Yes, I confirm that I understand and agree to the term as outlined in the job opportunity announcement and above.
 B. No, I do not agree to the training requirement terms and understand that I will be removed from further consideration for this position.
Assessment 1
The following question will only be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following best describes your experience and/or education to qualify for the GS-07 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes reviewing and updating automated data systems; reviewing seized property documentation for accuracy and completeness; assisting with determining special handling requirements for hazardous materials and any other property requiring special transportation and/or unique handling; assisting with reviewing seized property management reports and providing assistance with organizing work as directed; and supporting with the turnover of seized property for storage
 B. I have successfully completed one year (or more) of full-time graduate education or a Master's (or higher) degree from an accredited college or university. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 C. I have successfully completed all the requirements for a Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university and claim eligibility for superior academic achievement (SAA) based on one of the following: (1) class standing, (2) grade-point average, or (3) honor society membership. (See qualifications section in the job opportunity announcement for more information.) I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 D. I have a combination of successfully completed education and experience that is at least 100% as described in the Combining Experience and Education statement in the announcement posting. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 E. I do not possess the experience or education described above.
2. Which of the following best describes your experience and/or education to qualify for the GS-09 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes utilizing automated systems to identify and account for all seizures; assisting with the reviews of seized property documentation for accuracy and completeness and requesting additional information; assisting in the timely and accurate updating of the automated property tracking system within the established timeframes and maintaining a current and complete seized property file; assisting with plans, preparations and participating in seized property destruction operations; and assisting with monitoring the turnover of seized property for storage in the permanent seizure vault or to the national seized property contractors to ensure compliance with established timeframes
 B. I have successfully completed two or more years of full-time graduate education or a Master's (or higher) degree from an accredited college or university or an LL.B. or J.D that demonstrates the skills necessary to do the work. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 C. I have a combination of successfully completed education and experience that is at least 100% as described in the Combining Experience and Education statement in the announcement posting. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 D. I do not possess the specialized experience or education described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
3. Indicate the extent of your experience determining special handling requirements for hazardous/biohazardous materials.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. Under the direct guidance of a supervisor or other senior individual, I have determined the special handling requirements of hazardous/biohazardous materials.
 C. I have experience independently determining the special handling requirements of hazardous/biohazardous materials according to established procedures and guidelines.
 D. I have extensive experience determining the special handling requirements of hazardous/biohazardous materials. I have made recommendations to improve the handling process to my supervisor or other senior individual.
4. Indicate the extent of your experience destroying property in accordance with an organization's property destruction policy.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have been made aware of my organization's property destruction policy, but I have not yet been responsible for destroying property.
 C. I have been directed by a supervisor or other more senior individual to destroy property in accordance with my organization's property destruction policies.
 D. I am very knowledgeable about my organization's property destruction policies, and I have personally destroyed or directed others to destroy property in accordance with those policies.
5. Indicate the extent of your experience maintaining an accurate and complete tracking system.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. Under the direct guidance of a supervisor or other senior individual, I have reviewed the documentation within a tracking system for accuracy and completeness.
 C. I have experience ensuring the timely and accurate update of tracking system documentation within established timeframes. I have developed reports of my tracking files for my supervisor or more senior individual.
 D. I have extensive experience managing the review of tracking system documentation to ensure accuracy and completeness. I have made recommendations to improve the documentation update system process to my supervisor or other senior individual.
6. Indicate the extent of your experience utilizing a tracking system.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have experience utilizing a tracking system under the direct supervision of a supervisor or other senior individual.
 C. I have experience independently identifying and accounting for property utilizing a tracking system according to established procedures.
 D. I have extensive experience receiving, accounting for, and entering property into a tracking system. I have been responsible for maintaining reports and logs of my completed work.
7. Indicate the extent of your experience providing guidance to internal and external stakeholders.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have occasionally provided guidance and information to stakeholders regarding seized property issues.
 C. I have regularly provided guidance and information to a variety of stakeholders (e.g., supervisors, managers, employees, other agency representatives, court testimony) regarding seized property issues.
 D. I have regularly developed creative and innovating solutions to challenges posed by different types of seized property issues, and have provided guidance and information to a variety of stakeholders (e.g., supervisors, managers, employees, other agency representatives, court testimony) in implementing these solutions.
8. Indicate the extent of your experience preparing property for storage.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have packaged and labeled property for storage under the direct guidance of a supervisor or more senior individual.
 C. I have independently packaged and labeled property for storage according to established guidelines and procedures.
 D. I have extensive experience preparing property for storage. I have made recommendations to improve the storage system or process to my supervisor or other senior individual.
9. Indicate the extent of your experience monitoring the turnover of property for storage.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have limited experience monitoring the turnover of property for storage.
 C. I am familiar with the handling of property within a storage system and have independently monitored these processes. I have reported any issues to a supervisor or other senior individual.
 D. I have extensive experience handling property within a storage system. I have taken appropriate action to reconcile any issues that arose during the handling or storage process.
10. Indicate the extent of your experience maintaining responsibility and accountability for property.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. Under the direct guidance of a supervisor or other senior individual, I have maintained responsibility for property in my possession as part of the chain of custody process.
 C. I have independently maintained responsibility and accountability for property in my possession as part of the chain of custody process. I have reported any issues to a supervisor or other senior individual.
 D. I have extensive experience maintaining different aspects of the chain of custody process: seizure; custody; control; transfer; analysis; and disposition of property in my responsibility.
11. Indicate the extent of your experience operating a storage vault.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have limited experience operating a storage vault.
 C. I have independently operated a storage vault within established guidelines as part of my regular work duties.
 D. I have extensive experience operating a storage vault. I have trained other employees on how to utilize a storage vault.
12. Indicate the extent of your experience gathering, analyzing, and evaluating facts and information and drawing conclusions.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have gathered basic facts or information for analyses which were performed by a supervisor or other senior individual.
 C. I have independently gathered basic facts or information. I have provided written or verbal summaries to a supervisor or other senior individual.
 D. I have analyzed basic facts or information, developed a verbal or written summary of my conclusions, and made recommendations based on my work.
13. Indicate the extent of your experience in working with external groups (e.g., contractors) and ensuring compliance with established processes and deadlines.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in monitoring the performance of external groups (e.g., contractors).
 C. I have experience monitoring the performance of external groups (e.g., contractors), and have had the overall responsibility for ensuring their compliance with established processes and deadlines.
14. Indicate the extent of your experience in planning and organizing work.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have followed the schedule, goals, and guidelines prepared by my supervisor.
 C. I have independently set goals and priorities for my own work to ensure that my deadlines were met.
 D. I have set goals and priorities for my own work and coordinated activities and timelines with others to ensure that project goals and deadlines were met.
15. Indicate the extent of your experience completing assignments with minimal supervision.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have experience completing assignments with minimal supervision.
 C. I have extensive experience completing assignments independently.
16. Indicate the extent to which you have communicated in writing to accomplish work-related tasks.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written log entries; or I have written routine reports, letters, or memos on non-technical issues.
 C. I have written meeting summaries, or drafted responses to requests for information, or edited the non-technical writings of others.
 D. I have written comprehensive reports/documents of law enforcement activities (for example, seizure reports, operational plans, after-action reports, or reports of investigation); or I have written policies, procedures, or training manuals/materials; or I have written material for conferences, briefings, or speeches.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected