Position Title
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR FOR OPERATIONS (BUSINESS MANAGER)
Agency
Securities and Exchange Commission
Announcement Number
25-IN-12776584-VM Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 8, 2025 to Friday, August 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Have you served on a Schedule C appointment or as a political appointee anytime within the last 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current SEC employee serving on a permanent or conditional appointment? 

To determine your eligibility, please refer to your last SF-50.  To be eligible, your tenure code must be 1 or 2 AND your status must reflect competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1). 

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. From the options below, please indicate the choice that BEST describes your situation:
 A. I am an external candidate and I certify that I have read and understand that should I be selected for the position, the resume and application materials I have submitted will be used to determine salary. I also understand that I will not be permitted to provide an updated resume to OHR after the application period has closed.
 B. I am a current SEC employee and I certify that I have read and understand that should I be selected for this position and it results in a promotion, the standard percentage increase will be applied (i.e., 6% for non-supervisory and 10% for supervisory positions) to determine my salary. I understand that should I be selected for this position and it results in lateral movement (i.e. no change in grade) I will maintain my current salary. I also understand that if I should be selected for this position and it results in a change in grade from an SK-15 to an SK-16, I will maintain my current salary.
2. How did you hear about this position?
--Select-- 
--Select--
American Economic Association (AEA-JOE Network)
Career Fair (Please specify below)
College/University Job Board (e.g., Handshake, Symplicity)
Email from SEC Recruitment Team
Facebook
Friend (non-SEC Employee)
Friend (SEC Employee) (Please specify below)
I am a current SEC Employee or Contractor
Indeed
Job Board (Please specify below)
LinkedIn – Job Post
LinkedIn – Message from SEC Recruiter
SEC Careers Website (www.sec.gov/careers)
SEC Information Session
Social Science Research Network (SSRN)
USAJOBS – Job Search
USAJOBS – Message from SEC Recruiter
USAJOBS – Saved Search Email
X (formerly known as "Twitter")
Other source (e.g., job board, print ad, professional organization, website) (Please specify below)
3. Please specify based on your selection above as applicable:
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Assistant Director for Operations (Business Manager), SK-0301-17 position within the Division of Enforcement (ENF) at the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Are you a current permanent or conditional, competitive service employee within the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission? Please refer to block 24 for Tenure and block 34 for "Position Occupied" of your latest Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. From the descriptions below, select the response that best describes your ability to perform as an Assistant Director for Operations (Business Manager), SK-0301-17.
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS/SK-14 level: (1) Providing oversight and direction for a wide range of issues related to the operations and business management of internal administrative responsibilities such as human capital, and budget allocation; AND (2) Implementing administrative policies, procedures, or initiatives to meet organizational needs and accomplish program objectives; AND (3) Acting as liaison with individuals and groups both inside and outside an organization regarding administrative and/or organizational matters.
 B. I do not have the experience as described above and therefore I am ineligible for the position.
The following questions assess your qualifications. Please select the best answer(s) that describe(s) your experience.
3. From the list below select the statements that describe your experience increasing efficiency or effectiveness in an organization (select all that apply).
 A. Creating and implementing standard operating procedures.
 B. Developing improved business processes.
 C. Revising organizational structures to meet changing needs.
 D. Evaluating or testing internal controls.
 E. Implementing new human capital initiatives.
 F. None of the above.
4. From the list below select the statements that describe your experience in making recommendations on new initiatives or major projects at work (select all that apply).
 A. Substantively participating in meetings with external agency entities to discuss new products, approaches or improvements to processes
 B. Effectively addressing situations where frequent changes, delays or unexpected events arose that caused shifts in priorities, timetables or work assignments.
 C. Persuading others to consider/adopt new methods, procedures or techniques to improve operations.
 D. Discussing goals and expectations and assessed progress and challenges in meeting expectations.
 E. Making recommendations to senior management on new approaches in order to attain mission goals
 F. Briefing Congressional committees on programs/issues affecting the organization
 G. None of the above.
5. From the list below select the statements that describe your experience providing management advisory services: (Select all that apply).
 A. Human Resources
 B. Financial Management/Budget Analysis
 C. Management Analysis
 D. Acquisitions
 E. Ethics
 F. General Administrative Support (Space management, travel services, property accountability)
 G. Risk Management/Internal Controls
 H. None of the above.
6. Please select the response that best describes your experience evaluating, analyzing data and developing metrics in order to assess and document the progress of activities and/or programs.
 A. I have evaluated and analyzed data and developed metrics to measure the progress of activities and/or programs against organizational goals and report the results using financial, budgetary, and human capital data and systems.
 B. I have evaluated and analyzed data and developed metrics to measure an activity against organizational goals for a major support program.
 C. I have evaluated and analyzed data and developed metrics to measure the progress of internal office procedures and processes.
 D. I have related training and/or education that has provided me with a understanding of ways to evaluate and analyze data and develop metrics to measure the progress of programs or projects but, have not used these tools on the job.
 E. I do not have related experience.
7. From the list below, select the statements that describe your experience with studying organizations included analyzing the following: (select all that apply).
 A. The organization of work.
 B. The flow of work through the organization.
 C. The automation or technology used to support the work.
 D. The positions and skills required to perform the work.
 E. The structure of the organization.
 F. Management controls to assure quality and accuracy.
 G. Performance measures to monitor and track program performance.
 H. None of the above.
8. From the list below, select the statements that describe your experience incorporating data gathering and analysis to help inform decision making for your organization (select all that apply).
 A. I have developed data driven reports and analyses to support informed decision making related to human resources, budget, and other operational/administrative activities.
 B. I have demonstrated experience using data to develop analytical perspectives on operational and administrative activities.
 C. I have implemented data driven solutions to enhance operations.
 D. I have developed data driven reports specifically for use in developing more robust budget requests.
 E. I have led and directed team members to accomplish these specific tasks and analyses.
 F. I have not performed any of the above tasks.
9. From the list below, select the administrative support activities you have performed on a regular and recurring basis (select all that apply).
 A. I have assisted managers in allocating administrative resources such as space, furniture and equipment.
 B. I have assisted managers in evaluating system and/or data needs.
 C. I have monitored and approved travel authorizations and expense reports under federal travel regulations.
 D. I have used project management principles and best practices to monitor and drive achievement of results.
 E. I have prepared statements of work or requirements documents for contracting activities under federal regulations.
 F. I have developed automated solutions to improve business operations.
 G. None of the above.
10. From the list below, select the human capital activities that you have independently performed on a regular and recurring basis (select all that apply).
 A. Analyzing human resource data and developing recommendations based on that analysis.
 B. Developing recruitment strategies for essential occupations such as: economic, financial, and information technology.
 C. Advising managers on disciplinary or performance matters.
 D. Assessing workforce needs and developing hiring plans to meet those needs.
 E. Advising managers on hiring options under federal personnel regulations.
 F. Developing training plans to meet the needs of an organization.
 G. Coordinating or scheduling training classes.
 H. Advising managers on labor relations and collective bargaining provisions.
 I. None of the above.
11. From the list below select the elements of supervision that you have experience performing as a regular part of your position (select all that apply).
 A. Performance evaluations
 B. Recommending/approving awards
 C. Recruiting and staffing positions
 D. Employee development
 E. Employee relations
 F. Revising position descriptions or developing new position descriptions
 G. None of the above
12. From the list below, select the statement that best describes your experience developing, leading, directing and motivating a diverse group of people taking into account individual goals and skills.
 A. I have provided broad guidance to people to prioritize work and accomplish it in a timely manner.
 B. I have limited experience leading, directing and motivating team members to accomplish specific projects.
 C. I have led and supervised an office of professional and administrative staff in performing administrative support functions (human resources, financial management, budgeting, administrative services, etc.) for a large organization.
 D. I have led a large, complex, multi-layered workforce of widely varying occupations and knowledge levels.
 E. I have served as acting supervisor on occasion and assisted the supervisor in developing and leading others.
 F. I have led, directed and motivated team members to accomplish specific projects.
 G. I have not performed any of the above tasks.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected