Position Title
Aircraft Flight Instructor
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
AMO-DE-12757732-KAP Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 16, 2025 to Tuesday, July 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who meets one of the following criteria:
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) Eligible:  You have received notice that you will be displaced from the DHS, or
Displaced DHS employee with a confirmed Reemployment Priority List (RPL) registration: 
You have received notice that you will be displaced from the DHS, or
You have been separated by a reduction in force (RIF) from DHS within the last two years, or
You are fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year from date of separation from DHS due to a Workers Compensation Claim? 
 If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This question applies to current DHS employees. If you are not a current DHS employee, select No.  If you claim only this eligibility, and you are not a current DHS employee, you will not receive further consideration for this position.   

Are you a current Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who is currently employed with DHS in a permanent competitive service position? DHS includes the following agencies: CBP, ICE, FEMA, FLETC, USCIS, USCG, USSS, etc.). Please visit http://dhsconnect.dhs.gov for a comprehensive list of all DHS agencies. 

Note: To verify your eligibility as a current DHS employee you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting: Tenure: Career or career-conditional (1 or 2) and Position Occupied: Competitive service (1).

If you do not meet any of the categories above, you must answer no to this question.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency? If yes, confirm:
You occupy (or have been separated from) a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by CBP. Individuals are required to have physically resided in the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law) for at least three of the last five years, before completing an application for CBP employment.

If you do not meet the residency requirement as stated above and you have been physically located in a foreign location for more than two of the last five years, you may request an exception to determine if you are eligible for a residency wavier by meeting one or more of the following conditions:
Working for the U.S. Government as a federal civilian or as a member of the military
A dependent who was authorized to accompany a federal civilian or member of the military who was working for the U.S. government
Participation in a study abroad program sponsored by a U.S. affiliated college or university
Working as a contractor, intern, consultant or volunteer supporting the U.S. government

Exceptions may be granted to applicants if they can provide complete state-side coverage information required to make a suitability determination. Examples of state-side coverage information include: the state-side address of the company headquarters where the applicant's personnel file is located, the state-side address of the Professor in charge of the applicant's "Study Abroad" program, and/or the state-side addresses of anyone who worked or studied with the applicant while overseas. If selected for a position, you must provide documentation to support a request for an exception.

Do you meet the residency requirement?
 A. Yes, for at least 3 of the last 5 years I physically resided within the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law).
 B. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am a current CBP employee.
 C. No, I do not meet this requirement and am therefore requesting an exception under one of the criteria listed above. I understand that if selected for this position, I will be required to provide supporting documentation for the period of time I have spent outside of the United States.
 D. No, I do not meet this requirement and am not requesting an exception. I understand that since I do not meet CBP’s residency requirement, I cannot be considered for a position with CBP at this time.
3. Are you receiving a civilian retirement annuity from OPM based on retiring from the Federal government? If you select yes and you are selected for this position, your salary will be off-set by the amount of your civilian retirement annuity.

To verify, you must submit a copy of your retirement SF-50 with your application package. It is also recommended to submit a copy of your most recent annuity statement.

Note, this does not apply to military retirement and annuity pay.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
5. Which of the following statements best describes your pilot certification and ratings?
 A. I possess a current FAA Commercial or ATP Pilot Certificate with the following ratings: airplane, single engine or multiengine land with instrument; and rotorcraft helicopter with instrument.
 B. I possess a current FAA Commercial or ATP Pilot Certificate for Airplane single engine or multiengine land with the instrument rating.
 C. I possess a current FAA Commercial or ATP Pilot Certificate for Rotorcraft Helicopter with the instrument rating.
 D. I do not possess any of the above described certificates or ratings.
6. Are you a current or former Federal employee? If yes, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your SF-50(s) (Notification of Personnel Action) to support your experience. Also, ensure that your resume contains a detailed description of your federal work experience, including the dates you performed those duties, your hours worked per week, job title, as well as series, grade level(s), and salary (if applicable).
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Which of the following statements best describes your Flight Instructor certification and ratings?
 A. I possess a current FAA Flight Instructor Certificate with the following ratings: airplane, single engine or multiengine land with instrument -or- rotorcraft helicopter with the instrument rating. I WILL UPLOAD a copy of both front and back at time of application.
 B. I do not possess any of the above described certificates or ratings.
8. Have you completed 100 flight hours in the last 12 months?
 A. Yes, I WILL upload or fax a legible copy of my flight log(s) covering the last 12 months by the closing date of the announcement as proof of meeting this requirement
 B. No, I have not completed 100 flight hours within the last 12 months however, I AM eligible for a flight hour waiver. I am uploading or faxing legible copies of my flight logs with my application.
 C. No, I have not completed 100 flight hours within the last 12 months and I am not eligible for a flight hour waiver.
9. You must possess and provide proof of an FAA Medical Certificate First or Second Class. Either one must be dated within the last 12 calendar months and valid through the closing date of this announcement. However, at the time of appointment  MUST have an FAA 1st Class Medical Certificate dated within the previous 12 calendar months. Military flight medicals cannot be used - you must possess an FAA 1st or 2nd class Medical certificate.

Select the statement that best describes your FAA medical certificate.
 A. I possess a current FAA Medical Certificate First Class and will submit a legible copy as part of my application.
 B. I possess a current FAA Medical Certificate Second Class and will submit a legible copy as part of my application. I also understand that I MUST have an FAA First Class Medical Certificate at time of appointment.
 C. I do not possess either of the FAA medical certificates described above and will not have a First Class Medical Certificate at time of appointment.
10. I have logbook records showing a minimum of 250 Pilot-in-Command (PIC) flight hours, 75 Night flight hours, and 75 Instrument hours (actual and/or simulated/hood * at least 10 of the required instrument hours must have been logged in actual instrument weather. The balance may have been acquired in a flight simulator or as other types of instrument flight time, e.g., hood instrument.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Do you have at least 500 flight hours of instructor time?
 A. Yes. I understand that I must provide proof of these flight hours at time of application.
 B. No
12. I have logbook records showing a total of (select only one).
 A. Yes, my flight log reflects a minimum of 1500 hours total flight time. I am uploading a legible copy of the last page of my flight log with my application.
 B. 1,000 Flight hours to 1,499 Flight hours (you must complete the flight hour waiver questions). I am uploading a legible copy of the last page of my flight log with my application.
 C. No, my flight log does NOT reflect a minimum of 1500 hours total flight time and I AM NOT eligible for the Flight Hour Waiver.
Assessment 1
The following question will only be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-13 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes performing professional educational work as a Flight Instructor, conducting ground and flight training; pilot and aircrew evaluations; current and new course development;, new hire assessments; and student and pilot records management duties at the National Air Training Center (NATC) and performing flight training and aircrew evaluations at the various agency locations as needed.
 B. I do not possess the experience described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
2. Select each option that describes the flight instruction practices you have experience performing.

 A. I have no experience performing this work.
 B. Completing student grade sheets
 C. Presenting technical information to small groups
 D. One on one instruction in an aircraft
 E. One on one evaluation in an aircraft
3. Select each option that describes your experience performing Certified Flight Instructor (CFI) duties.

 A. I have no experience performing this work.
 B. Conducted training in an aircraft
 C. Conducted training in a flight simulator
 D. Conducted training in a flight training device for a particular type aircraft
4. Select each option that describes your experience conducting initial entry and standardization checkrides.
 A. I have no experience performing this work.
 B. Evaluated basic, advanced, standard, and non-standard flight and instrument flight maneuvers.
 C. Evaluated emergency procedures.
 D. Evaluated crew coordination procedures and cockpit resource management.
 E. Evaluated non-routine flying techniques such as overwater, mountain, confined, and hazardous area operations.
5. Select the option that best describes your experience conducting flight instruction and certification of required training for initial, added aircraft category, and aircraft instrument for rated pilots.

 A. I have no experience performing this work.
 B. I have been an assistant to other instructors who were providing pre- and post-flight training or continued training (for example, disseminating course materials, presenting practical examples).
 C. I have conducted portions of pre- and post-flight training or continued training.
 D. I have served as the lead instructor for pre-and post-flight training or continued training.
6. I have analyzed present and future weather conditions to plan and coordinate flight operations.

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Select the option that best describes your experience navigating by use of aeronautical charts under instrument flight techniques.

 A. I have no experience or training performing this work.
 B. I have training or limited experience performing this work, and need supervision or guidance to perform at a proficient level.
 C. I have experience performing this work across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 D. I have performed this work independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this work including in unusual or complex situations. I have advised and instructed others in carrying out this work.
8. Select each option that describes the functions you have performed as a Certified Flight Instructor (CFI).
 A. I have no experience performing this work.
 B. Performed needs assessments.
 C. Utilized training theory and techniques during instruction.
 D. Performed training evaluations.
 E. Utilized training technologies (flight and crew member simulators).
9. Select the option that best describes your experience instructing and evaluating student pilots in precision instrument flight techniques and procedures for flying fixed or rotary wing aircraft.

 A. I have no experience or training performing this work.
 B. I have training or limited experience performing this work, and need supervision or guidance to perform at a proficient level.
 C. I have experience performing this work across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 D. I have performed this work independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this work including in unusual or complex situations. I have advised and instructed others in carrying out this work.
10. Select the option that best describes your experience performing the duties of a certified flight instructor (CFI).
 A. I have no experience or training performing this work.
 B. I have received education and training in performing the duties of a CFI, but have not performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed similar duties and/or tasks of a CFI and my experience and training has equipped me to perform this task successfully.
 D. I have performed the duties of a CFI routinely and independently as a regular part of jobs that I have held.
11. Select the option that best describes your experience in formal and workplace writing.

 A. I have no experience performing this work.
 B. I have written informal correspondence to request or provide information needed for official work tasks.
 C. I have written portions of formal and structured reports, briefings, informational papers, or other documents.
 D. I have written and edited complete formal and structured reports, briefings, informational papers, or other documents.
12. Select the option that best describes your knowledge of the Federal Aviation Administration regulations and procedures relating to flight instruction, ground instruction, and pilot certification.

 A. I have no knowledge of these regulations and procedures.
 B. I have a basic understanding of these regulations and procedures.
 C. I have a working knowledge of these regulations and procedures. I have applied this knowledge in a work setting.
 D. I have extensive knowledge of these regulations and procedures. I have applied this knowledge in a work setting.
Request for Flight Hour Waiver - If you have under 1,500 flight hours, please answer the following questions.
13. Please certify the number of flight hours as a flight instructor.
(limit 4 characters)
14. Please certify the number of flight hours flying a multi-engine aircraft.
(limit 4 characters)
15. Please certify the number of flight hours flying with night vision devices.
(limit 4 characters)
16. I certify that I have flown in areas the U.S. Government has considered imminent danger zones/combat zones. (Example: An Army pilot with experience flying helicopters in Afghanistan.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
17. I certify that I have experience flying over difficult/dangerous terrain and/or over water.

 A. Yes
 B. No
18. I have flown 100 flight hours in the last 12 months.

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected