Position Title
Wildland Firefighter (Training & Workforce Development) - Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Bureau of Land Management
Announcement Number
FADHA-25-12768134-BR Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 22, 2025 to Tuesday, July 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Career Transition Assistance Plan:  Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced or surplused from the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which I have been or will be separated; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.   
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan: Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am currently in a position at the same grade level or higher than the position being announced; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Survey Questions
1. My resume contains hours worked per week for each season and position held. For example, 1 year of experience is equivalent to 12 months at 40 hours per week (full-time). Part-time hours are prorated. I understand that I will not receive any credit for a position listed that does not include hours worked per week.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. My resume contains the beginning and ending dates (month/year to month/year) and grade level (if federal service) for each period of work experience/employment. I understand failure to adequately include this information may affect my qualification determination for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I consent to the release of information about my ability and fitness for Federal employment by employers, schools, law enforcement agencies, and other individuals and organizations to investigators, human resource specialists, and other authorized employees or representatives of the Federal Government. I understand that for some other sources of information, a separate specific release may be needed, and I may be contacted for such a release at a later date.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I have read the "How to Apply" & "Required Documents" sections and understand that failure to submit any required documents may result in my being found not qualified.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I understand that additional selections may be made from this vacancy, within the same geographical area, by other bureaus from within the DOI, through shared recruiting activities, and my application may be shown to multiple hiring offices. Additional selections for similar positions across the entire Department of the Interior within the local commuting area(s) identified in this vacancy announcement may be made. By applying, I agree to have my application shared with any interested selecting official(s) within the DOI. There is no option to opt-out as my information will not be shared with other hiring agencies outside of the DOI. Applying to this announcement does not replace the need to apply to other job opportunity announcements for which you wish to receive consideration.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. I understand that I must ensure my resume, supporting documents (SF-50 or other official document to verify date of birth), transcripts, fire qualifications (IQCS), etc., are not password protected or contain redacted information that could make my application package ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Training Specialist position with the Federal government. We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported in your resume and supporting documents.
1. I qualify for the GS-12 level because I meet 1-year specialized experience as defined in the vacancy announcement equivalent to the GS-11.

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Please select the response that best describes your level of proficiency in managing employee development:

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in this field.
 B. I have completed education or training in this field but have not yet applied this education or training on the job.
 C. I have performed work in this field as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. Work in this field has been a central or major part of my job. I have routinely performed the work and I have trained others in performance of this work and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this work.
3. When faced with tight deadlines, changing priorities and conflicting responsibility, which of the following best describes your work style.

 A. I thrive with the challenge. I am at my best when working under pressure.
 B. I adapt well to changing needs. I re-prioritize workloads and coordinate with others to get the work done.
 C. I work best in a structured environment although I can adapt to emergency situations on occasion.
 D. I do not adapt well to conflicting situations and priorities. I like to know what is expected of me at all times.
 E. I have not had experience working in an office with this type of structure.
4. Select all statements below that best describe your ability to design and implement strategies, which maximize employee potential and foster high ethical standards in meeting the organization's vision, mission, and goals. Select all that apply

 A. Provide leadership to accomplish the goals for an organization by guiding and motivating others and gaining the confidence and active support of internal and external customers and stakeholder groups.
 B. Assess the needs and develop promotion potential opportunities for subordinate staffs; motivates employees by sharing credit for successful accomplishments (e.g., giving them opportunities to present their work); and recognize employees through effective use of the organization's performance management and awards systems.
 C. Serve as formal and informal mentor for staff; give employees latitude to plan and perform work; maintain open communication.
 D. Foster culturally diverse work organizations to achieve organizational goals and objectives.
 E. Achieve voluntary commitment to shared values and goals and adapt leadership style to different work situations.
 F. None of the above.
5. Select all the statements that best describe your experience in providing program leadership, management, and coordination:

 A. I have experience preparing policies, standards, and procedures.
 B. I have experience coordinating budget development, monitoring, and reporting.
 C. I have experience analyzing and evaluating data to identify trends, characteristics and deficiencies and making recommendations based on my analysis.
 D. I have experience coordinating and interacting with other agencies, State government(s) and numerous local community groups.
 E. I have experience preparing long range management plans, including evaluating and implementing program changes.
 F. I have experience providing advice to managers to resolve recurring or complex issues.
 G. I have experience training others in all aspects of the program.
 H. I have experience in analyzing and resolving conflicts in program objectives and/or critical work issues in controversial situations requiring complex negotiations.
 I. None of the above.
6. Indicate your level of experience as it pertains to the interpersonal communication skills that you routinely apply at work. Select all that apply.

 A. Participate in one-on-one interactions with co-workers to accomplish work-related duties.
 B. Explain technical issues to a variety of individuals from within or outside of your agency or organization.
 C. Establish and maintain working relationships with representatives of other organizations.
 D. Provide direction, explanation, guidance or information to others to clarify regulations or procedures.
 E. Handle complaints or problems; propose new procedures or functionality; work well with a variety of people.
 F. None of the above.
7. Select the statement that best describes your ability to communicate orally.

 A. I have significant experience speaking to large groups of managers and employees in a training or seminar setting or in verbally advising top management about topics that are controversial in nature or have a high budgetary impact.
 B. I have significant experience speaking to small groups of managers and employees in a training or seminar setting or in verbally advising groups of supervisors and managers about topics that affect individual personnel actions.
 C. I have experience speaking to small groups of managers and employees in a training setting or in verbally advising supervisors and managers, one-on-one, about topics that affect individual personnel actions.
 D. I have some experience verbally advising supervisors and managers, one-on-one, about topics that affect individual personnel actions.
 E. I do not have the experience indicated above.
8. Select the response(s) that best describe your experience identifying and analyzing problems, making decisions, and providing solutions.

 A. Developed policies, regulations, procedures, and plans for implementation by senior officials in meeting the organization's goals and objectives.
 B. Prepared and presented analytical information to senior management officials within the organization.
 C. Developed comprehensive material for reports, briefings, or meetings with senior management officials.
 D. Explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings, and recommendations to senior management officials both internal and external to the organization.
 E. None of the above.
9. Select the statement that best describes your work coordinating and conducting large-scale training programs.

 A. I coordinate training programs with the responsibility for logistics, coordinating speakers, planning, and executing the sessions.
 B. I coordinate and conduct training programs with responsibility for all planning, logistics, and written materials.
 C. I have assisted with the coordination of training programs but have not taken a lead role.
 D. I have not participated in the coordination of public event programs.
10. Indicate the statement that best describes your ability to develop, implement and evaluate fire training products, policies, and procedures.

 A. I have developed, implemented, and evaluated fire training products, policies, and procedures at the national level.
 B. I have developed, implemented, and evaluated fire training products, policies, and procedures at the state level.
 C. I have developed, implemented, and evaluated fire training products, policies, and procedures at the local level.
 D. I have experience organizing training programs and developing training policies and procedures.
 E. None of the above.
11. Select the statement that best describes your experience with the Incident Qualifications and Certification System (IQCS) including training, reporting or account management.

 A. I have working experience with all facets of the Incident Qualifications and Certification System. I know and understand the qualification and certification process including account management, training and reporting or I have performed as an account manager.
 B. I have a working knowledge and some experience with the Incident Qualification and Certification System, or I have had an account in the system.
 C. I have limited knowledge of the qualification and certification process, but I do not have any direct experience working with the Incident Qualification and Certification System.
 D. I have no knowledge of or experience with the Incident Qualifications and Certification System.
12. Indicate the statement that best describes your ability to develop, implement and evaluate workforce development products, policies, and procedures.

 A. I have developed, implemented, and evaluated fire training products, policies, and procedures at the national level.
 B. I have developed, implemented, and evaluated fire training products, policies, and procedures at the state level.
 C. I have developed, implemented, and evaluated fire training products, policies, and procedures at the local level.
 D. I have experience organizing training programs and developing training policies and procedures.
 E. None of the above.
13. Please choose each of the fire management activities in which you have experience.

 A. Mobilization and dispatch coordination
 B. Fire prevention and education
 C. Training and workforce development
 D. Logistics
 E. Operations
 F. Fire planning
 G. Fuels
 H. Aviation
 I. None of the Above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
14. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected