Position Title
IMMIGRATION SERVICES OFFICER
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12754960-CROHQ-IMP-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 9, 2025 to Friday, July 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current DHS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who is in a permanent position that is in the competitive service (see block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type)?

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of our SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who has held, or currently holds, a permanent position in the competitive service (see block #34 of your SF-50) with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?  

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
 Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. I acknowledge the following conditions if I choose to submit my resume through the USAJOBS Resume Builder:
I understand that resumes submitted through USAJOBS Resume Builder are converted to a PDF format when they are transmitted to USA Staffing from the USAJOBS applicant interface and additional spaces/page gaps are added to resumes during the Resume Builder conversion process;
Based on the above conditions, I understand that USCIS strongly encourages me to save my resume to a PDF document and upload the PDF document instead of submitting my resume created through Resume Builder;
I understand that USCIS' human resources will only review the first 5 pages of my resume to determine eligibility/qualifications for this position;
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I have met this requirement for consideration.

(Note: Additional guidance regarding this requirement is available within the How to Submit Your Resume section of the USCIS Resume Requirement FAQs.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 D. No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.
3. I acknowledge that this position is NOT remote and that if selected, I will be expected to report to the duty station listed within the announcement text.
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I understand this requirement.
By answering NO to this question, I am asking to be removed from further consideration for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. GS-13 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
2. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
3. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-13. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
The following section contains a multitude of question types. If you see a radio button, you can only select one response. If you see a checkbox, you may select all that apply.
4. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience developing statistical reports regarding immigration benefit adjudication operations?
 A. I generated standard, recurring reports from a single system to inform my supervisor.
 B. I developed reports across multiple electronic data tracking systems at both the local and national level.
 C. I identified inconsistent elements in reports and made recommendations for improvements.
 D. I analyzed reports to determine the effectiveness of improvements that were implemented based on my recommendation.
 E. I have education and/or training related to developing statistical reports regarding immigration benefit adjudication operations, but do not have professional experience.
 F. I have no education, training, and/or professional experience developing statistical reports regarding immigration benefit adjudication operations.
5. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience developing policies, guidance, directives, or procedures on program operations?
 A. I have recommended changes to existing policies that were implemented by others.
 B. I have no experience, education, or training on developing policies, guidance, directives, or procedures on program operations.
 C. I have independently developed policies, guidance, directives, or procedures on program operations.
 D. I reviewed and approved policies, guidance, directives, or procedures on program operations for accuracy and relevance prior to implementation.
 E. I completed education or training related to policy development, but do not yet have professional experience.
6. Which response best describes your highest level of experience making legal decisions based on a preponderance of evidence received during data collection for applicants seeking immigration benefits?
 A. I provided data to others who were responsible for making legal decisions.
 B. I independently researched, interpreted and analyzed sources in order to make legal decisions.
 C. I independently reviewed and approved legal decisions made by others to ensure agency-/ organizational-wide pertinent sections of the law and regulations were supported.
 D. None of the above.
7. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience writing a statement of reasons for an adverse determination (e.g., disqualifying applicants)?
 A. I have no education, training, or experience writing statements of reason.
 B. I completed education and/or training in writing statements of reason, but have not yet performed them on the job.
 C. I drafted adjudicative summaries to identify potential adverse determinations.
 D. I drafted a request for information to mitigate or disqualify applicants' eligibility.
 E. I issued notices of proposed actions to communicate adverse actions to the applicant.
 F. I issued final adverse determinations to applicants.
8. Which activities have you completed related to implementing a novel training project (e.g. an original training project that has not been implemented in your organization before)?
 A. I participated in project planning meetings.
 B. I trained personnel in preparing action plans.
 C. I developed project plans including milestones, timelines, and required resources to be approved by others.
 D. I managed resources required to implement training projects.
 E. I developed course design with anticipated resources and logistics.
 F. I defined behavioral outcomes and expected results.
 G. None of the above.
9. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience providing guidance on immigration adjudications?
 A. I evaluated the legal sufficiency of adjudications through quality assurance reviews and reports.
 B. I wrote briefing materials and memorandums on the proper adjudication of immigration benefits.
 C. I conducted briefings and trainings on how to adjudicate immigration benefit applications.
 D. I created standard operating procedures, policy guidance, and lesson plans for the adjudication of immigration benefits applications.
 E. None of the above.
10. Which activities have you performed related to legislation, regulations, policy and procedures?
 A. Reviewed legislation, regulations, policies, and procedures to identify and compile the applicable information.
 B. Determined compliance/non-compliance with the applicable legislation, regulations, policy and procedure and informed others for decision-making.
 C. Reviewed new or changes to legislation, regulations, policies, and procedures to identify organizational impacts.
 D. Explained interpretations of the legislation, regulations, policy and procedures to others.
 E. Provided recommendations for a course of action as a result of the relevant legislation, regulations, policy and procedures.
 F. None of the above.
11. Choose the statements that describe your experiences directing the development and implementation of long-term products or services that are consistent with the organization's strategic vision.
 A. I worked on a team that has developed and implemented products and services that are consistent with the organization’s strategic vision.
 B. I led a team of managers to develop and implement products and services that are consistent with the organization’s strategic vision.
 C. I developed and implemented products and services that align with the organization’s strategic vision.
 D. I developed strategic plans.
 E. I received training on how to develop strategic plans.
 F. I developed strategic plans that tie mission objectives to the organization vision.
 G. None of the above statements describe my experience.
12. Select the activities you have completed to communicate with applicants and petitioners applying for immigration benefits.
 A. I independently communicated highly technical immigration laws to customers seeking immigration benefits.
 B. I mitigated applicants' objections by analyzing issues and identifying appropriate resources for expedient resolution.
 C. I developed Standard Operating Procedures on how to appropriately adjudicate applications and petitions for immigration benefits.
 D. I followed-up with applicants and petitioners to ensure there were no new/remaining issues.
 E. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
13. Have you interpreted legislation and executive orders to inform plans for achieving program objectives (e.g., forecasting future workload)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience assessing the design/effectiveness of internal controls?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to evaluating internal controls.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to evaluating internal controls, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I reported the end result that internal controls achieved their intended objective.
 D. I reported information (e.g., trend data) summarizing the results of assessments to support my conclusion.
 E. I developed alternative approaches to addressing issues on program effectiveness.
15. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience facilitating classroom-based training that was supervisory or leadership oriented?
 A. I have no experience, education, or training related to facilitating a classroom training.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to facilitating a classroom training, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I have assisted a lead facilitator in delivering training in a classroom environment.
 D. I facilitated breakout working groups (i.e., 4-8 trainees) as part of a larger classroom environment.
 E. I independently facilitated classroom settings of 18 or more trainees.
16. In which settings have you delivered training on Immigration Fraud detection or Immigration benefit requests?
 A. Informal briefings.
 B. Internal formal classes
 C. Applied, on-the-job training.
 D. Online webinars.
 E. External conferences.
 F. External workshops.
 G. None of the above.
17. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience addressing issues or concerns related to the delivery of technical customer services?
 A. I reported customer service issues to the appropriate staff for resolution.
 B. I collaborated with staff on customer requests to resolve issues.
 C. I developed new methods, approaches and procedures to improve customer services.
 D. I independently resolved customer support requests across a wide variety of information technology areas (e.g., platforms, operating systems, applications, and desktop configurations).
 E. I completed education and/or training related to providing technical customer services, but do not have professional experience.
 F. I have no experience, training, or education related to technical customer services.
18. Which project management tasks have you independently performed?
 A. Established project management standards (e.g., templates, guidelines) used by an entire organization.
 B. Executed established projects set by the executive leadership.
 C. Conducted research to resolve problems that arose during projects.
 D. Prioritized assigned individual tasks.
 E. Reviewed employees' work for technical adequacy.
 F. Provided performance feedback to team members on assigned tasks.
 G. Provided management oversight (e.g., tracking deadlines, monitoring performance) to a team on a project with organization-wide impact.
 H. None of the above.
19. Select the tasks you have performed to manage team assignments.
 A. Set expectations (i.e., standards, deadlines) for team/individual performance
 B. Executed an established operating/project budget
 C. Established work schedules`
 D. Assigned tasks
 E. Reviewed completed work for technical adequacy
 F. Provided feedback to team members/employees on completed work
 G. Reported team progress to senior management
 H. Created analysis of the workload to assist with performance measurements
 I. None of the above
20. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience performing management-related activities in a non-supervisory capacity?
 A. I served as an official Point of Contact (POC) on an inter-office project, managing the project and reporting directly to a supervisor/manager.
 B. I directed the workflow within a team.
 C. I drafted Standard Operating Procedure training materials for review.
 D. I recommended changes to a process based on operational needs.
 E. None of the above.
21. Which program and project management activities have you performed?
 A. I functioned as an acquisition specialist.
 B. I have been a team member in a liaison role between project teams, Program Manager, and customers.
 C. I attended meetings with Project Teams to jointly identify and plan upcoming contract actions.
 D. I led meetings with Project Teams, as the Project Manager, to ensure timelines and the budget of the procurement process are being met.
 E. I assisted Program Manager(s) in the development of the acquisition lifecycle to identify objectives and milestones.
 F. I created performance schedules for project teams.
 G. I suggested changes to the Contracting Officer that improved contract performance and processes.
 H. None of the above.
22. I evaluated the immigration benefits process to identify and correct patterns of error (e.g., compliance with law/procedure, adjudication errors).
 A. True
 B. False
23. Select the resources you have used to complete research on an individual's eligibility for immigration benefits.
 A. Immigration and Nationality Act
 B. Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American Relief Act (NACARA)
 C. Violence Against Women Act (VAWA
 D. Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA)
 E. Convention Against Torture
 F. Case Precedents
 G. Country Conditions
 H. International Human Rights Laws and Treaties
 I. Documentary Evidence
 J. Law enforcement data bases and records
 K. Agency's policy and procedures manual
 L. None of the above
24. Which statement best represents your highest level of experience developing immigration policies, programs, and procedures independently?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to developing immigration policies, programs or procedures.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to developing immigration policies, programs or procedures, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I independently conducted research on program management best practices.
 D. I reviewed proposed legislation on adjudications programs and recommended changes where appropriate.
 E. I participated in working groups to negotiate policy changes.
 F. I prepared executive-level reports on the impact of proposed immigration adjudicative policy on the agency mission.
25. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience enhancing the effectiveness of immigration benefits policies and programs?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to enhancing immigration benefits policies and programs.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to making immigration benefits programs effective, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I provided guidance and interpretation on policy matters relating to immigration benefits.
 D. I performed analytical and evaluative work associated with immigration program activities.
 E. I researched and developed new policies and procedures.
26. If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "pass," "satisfactory," or better?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. I am a Federal employee but have not received a performance rating.
 D. Not applicable. I am not a Federal employee.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
27. Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected