Position Title
Administration Assistant
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12794733 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 5, 2025 to Friday, September 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Assessment 1
1. How many years of experience in administrative functions do you have, to include: excellent typing skills, ability to use a personal computer with specific ability with word processing, spreadsheet, database, and presentation software--Microsoft Word, Excel, Access and PowerPoint? Must be documented on your resume to get credit.
 A. 5 years or more documented experience
 B. 3 to 5 years documented experience
 C. 2 to 3 years documented experience
 D. Less than 2 years documented experience
2. How many years experience do you have executing purchases to include completing purchase requests, statements of work, cash disbursement memorandum and sole source justifications. Must be documented on your resume to get credit.
 A. 3 to 5 years experience
 B. 2 to 3 years experience
 C. 1 to 2 years experience
 D. Less than a year of experience
3. How many years of experience do you have in using Excel spreadsheets to formulate cells and populate data in order to track annual contracts and invoice expenses as an organizational means? Must be documented on your resume to get credit.
 A. 3 or more years of experience
 B. 2 to 3 years of experience
 C. 1 to 2 years of experience
 D. Less than a year of experience
4. How many years of experience in establishing systems for organizing correspondence, budget information, purchasing documents, plant property, inventory, etc. do you have? Must be documented on your resume.
 A. 3 years or more experience
 B. 2 to 3 years of experience
 C. 1 to 2 years of experience
 D. Less than 1 year of experience
5. Are you a current NAF Mid-Atlantic Region employee?  (You will need to attach your SF50)
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. How many years of experience working for Fleet & Family Readiness programs do you have listed on your resume
 A. 2 or more years of experience
 B. 1 to 2 years of experience
 C. Less than 1 year of experience
 D. No experience
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected