Position Title
Accountant
Agency
Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers
Announcement Number
FLETC-CFO-25-12772595 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 30, 2025 to Friday, August 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND you:
• have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more; OR,
• are retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. You must also submit the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. (1) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is currently on Active Duty? 

-OR-

(2) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating of 100 percent at the time of retirement or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?

-OR-

(3) Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility for option 1 identified above, you must provide a valid copy of the marriage certificate or other documentation verifying marriage (such as any official documentation verifying a recognized common law marriage) and a copy of the orders verifying the military member is currently on active duty.

To verify your eligibility for options 2 and 3 identified above, you must submit the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15 and all supporting documentation identified on that document (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; death certificate and documentation identifying marital status at the time of death; disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service, etc..
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Were you employed overseas as an Appropriated Fund employee AND did you:
• complete 52 weeks of creditable overseas service in an appropriated fund position(s) as a family member during the time you accompanied a sponsor officially assigned to an overseas area; AND,
• receive a fully successful or better (or equivalent) performance rating; AND,
• return to the United States to resume residence less than 3 years ago?

For more information, review USAJOBS Former Overseas Employees resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, and performance appraisal.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Do you meet one of the following Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibilities:
• Current Federal or former employees with career or career-conditional appointments in the competitive service that hold, or have held a career or career-conditional position at a lower grade level as the position being announced; or,
• Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) eligibles

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation. For example, a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your competitive status or a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Were you formerly employed as a Federal civilian employee on a permanent competitive appointment or did you obtain career-conditional status (and are within 3 years of the date of separation or are a preference eligible) and have never held the full performance level of this position?

-OR-

Are you currently employed as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and have not held the full performance level of this position?

To verify your eligibility as a current or former Federal civilian employee, you must submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your separation SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Have you completed at least 1 year of continuous service immediately before separation from one or more nontemporary Foreign Service appointments; AND, your separation from a Foreign Service career-type appointment occurred in the last 3 years (individuals entitled to veteran's preference do not need to meet this 3-year requirement)?

-OR-

Have you completed at least 3 years of substantially continuous service under one or more nontemporary appointments in the Foreign Service immediately before separation from an unlimited, career-type appointment in that Service?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your nontemporary status. If you are outside of the 3-year requirement but are entitled to veteran's preference, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months?

-OR-

Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and are requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student or other experience related to this position?

-OR-

Are you a current or former Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your description of service or other proof of non-competitive eligibility. If you are a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who is requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility, please also provide the necessary documentation to support your request.
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you currently employed as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service at the same grade level as this position or higher with the same or higher promotion potential?

-OR-

Were you formerly employed as a Federal civilian employee on a permanent competitive appointment or have you obtained career-conditional status (and are within 3 years of the date of separation or are a preference eligible) and have held the same grade as this position or higher with the same or higher promotion potential?

To verify your eligibility as a current or former Federal civilian employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1.
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management?

For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems.

-OR-

Are you a current:
• Postal Career Service Employee;
• Postal Rate Commission Employee;
• Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; or,
• Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee?

For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status.
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.
 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:
• served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (Note: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
• are entitled to veterans' preference?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
 A. Yes
 B. No
15. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Glynco, GA
 B. Cheltenham, MD
 C. North Charleston, SC
FLETC Data
1.

Are you applying for a promotion? It is a promotion if you are applying for a general schedule (GS) position that is higher than the grade level you currently hold or previously held in the past. To be considered for a promotion, you must provide SF-50(s) that shows that you have held the next lower GS grade for at least one year. SF-50s that have an effective date within the past year (e.g., General Adjustment SF-50 from this year or Within Rate/Grade Increases (WRI/WGI) SF-50 within a year) do not clearly show that you meet the one-year time-in-grade requirement. That means if you submit an SF-50 that is dated within the last year, you must submit another SF-50 that is dated more than one year ago to clearly demonstrate you meet the time-in-grade requirements.

 A. Yes, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a promotion. I have submitted one or two SF-50(s) that show I have held the next lower GS grade or equivalent (non-GS pay system) for at least one year.
 B. No, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a GS grade that I currently hold or have held in the past. I have submitted an SF-50 to support this claim.
 C. Yes, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a promotion but I have not held the next lower grade or equivalent (non-GS pay system) for at least one year. I was recently promoted to my current grade level within the last year so I do not meet the time-in-grade requirements for promotion.
 D. No, I am not a GS employee and I have not been a GS employee within the last year (e.g. I am in a pay band, or I am an FWS employee, or I have never worked for the federal government) so this is not applicable to me.
2. How did you learn about this Department of Homeland Security (DHS) job opportunity announcement?
--Select-- 
--Select--
Career Fair
Met a FLETC representative at a recruitment event
Magazine
Newspaper
Radio
TV
Poster
Private Employment Office
State Employment Office (Unemployment Office)
Agency Human Resources Development (bulletin board or other announcement)
Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college
Federal, state, or local Job Information Center
Religious organization
College, university, or career placement counselor
Friend or relative working for this agency
Friend or relative not working for this agency
USAJOBS
Professional Association
Publication
Conference
College Event
Private information service
LinkedIn
Other
3. Select the rating level you received, as applicable to your agency's performance management system, for your last performance appraisal. Please provide a copy of your last performance appraisal.
 A. Outstanding | Achieved Excellence
 B. Exceeds Fully Successful/Highly Successful | Exceeded Expectations
 C. Fully Successful/Pass | Achieved Expectations
 D. Minimally Satisfactory/Minimally Acceptable
 E. Unacceptable/Fail
 F. None of the above
4. Select the types of awards you have received within the last three years.
 A. Quality Step Increase
 B. Special Act or Time Off Award
 C. Performance Award
 D. Honorary Award
 E. Letter of Commendation
 F. None of the above
5. List any education and/or training related to this position (do not provide copies of certificates).
6. I have thoroughly reviewed the 'How to Apply/Required Documents' & 'Qualifications' sections of this Vacancy Announcement to determine which supplemental documents to submit. This may include: Transcripts to verify undergraduate/graduate education; A Current/Non-Award SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, noting current position title, series, grade, position occupied, tenure, highest salary (including basic pay) and duty location if I am a current/former Federal employee; DD-214 if I am a veteran (and SF-15/VA Letter if applicable), etc. I understand that failure to fax or upload required documents by the vacancy announcement's closing date may result in loss of consideration. Answer to this question is required.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. The Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers does not recognize academic degrees (including any coursework leading to a degree) from schools that are not accredited by an accrediting institution recognized by the Department of Education. Any applicant falsely claiming an academic degree from an accredited school will be subject to actions ranging from disqualification from federal employment to removal from federal service. Please review the following link to determine your school's accreditation status: Accreditation: Postsecondary Education Institutions | U.S. Department of Education.
 A. I certify that my academic degree (or degrees) is from a college or university accredited by an accrediting institution recognized by the Department of Education.
 B. I have an academic degree (or degrees) from a college or university that is NOT accredited by an accrediting institution recognized by the Department of Education.
 C. I do not have an academic degree.
8. You must submit a copy of your college transcript (unofficial is acceptable) from an accredited institution listing the college/university, degree confirmation date(s) and applicable courses for the position you are applying to.

If selected, applicants must provide an official college transcript prior to appointment.

I have submitted a copy of my transcript with all required information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. I certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position. I understand that evidence of copying and pasting directly from the vacancy announcement without clearly documenting supplemental information to describe my experience will result in an ineligible rating, and I will not receive further consideration. Also, I fully understand that ONLY the first 5 pages of my resume will be reviewed, anything past 5 pages will not be considered or reviewed.
 A. Yes, I understand the statement above and certify my resume.
 B. No, I do not certify my resume and do not understand the statement above.
Assessment 1
Please limit your résumé to 5 pages. If more than 5 pages are submitted, only the first 5 pages will be reviewed to determine your eligibility/qualifications.
DO NOT submit more than one resume, if you do, we will only review the resume with the latest time stamp on it.
Please ensure your resume does not have any photographs on it or any PII.
Please ensure your responses below are supported by information in your resume, if your resume does not reflect the responses, you selected below, you could be removed from further consideration. 
When uploading documentation to your application, please ensure that if you have multiple documents of the same kind, that you combine them into one, and then upload/attach into the correct folder. (e.g. if you have multiple SF-50s, you will need to combine them into one PDF file and then upload under the SF-50 folder. You can adjust your application and documents as needed, BEFORE the announcement closes.
1. Select the one statement that best describes the education/experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Accountant, GS-0510-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the federal service.
 A. A Degree: accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing" in this standard. Similarly, "accountant" should be interpreted, generally, as "accountant and/or auditor.")
 B. A Combination of education and experience: at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. The applicant's background must also include oneof the following: Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; or Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A, provided that (a) the applicant has successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors has determined that the applicant has demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in paragraph A; and (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, the applicant's education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements.
 C. I do not possess the education/experience described above.
2. From the options below, select one statement that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for an Accountant, GS-0510-13. NOTE: Your resume must support your claim of specialized experience, i.e. where, when and how you performed the work, or you may be found ineligible.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience that is equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service: 1)providing expert and authoritative advice on complex and difficult areas of financial accounting work 2) instructing and directing lower-graded and/or newly assigned personnel in the practical application of accounting principles; 3)operating the accounting system modules; 4)applying rules and regulations regarding expenditures, revenue, and cash collections; AND 5)delivery of customer-oriented fiscal services; and the proper methods of selecting various data for recording financial transactions.
 B. I do not have the experience described above.
3. Which of the following best describes your experience analyzing financial events during an accounting cycle, and in comparing subsequent findings with prior studies to assess and report on trends?

 A. I have not analyzed financial events during an accounting cycle, and in comparing subsequent findings with prior studies to assess and report on trends.
 B. I have received education and training which has equipped me to analyze financial?events during an accounting cycle, and in comparing subsequent findings with prior studies to assess and report on trends.
 C. I have been a member of a team which have analyzed financial?events during an accounting cycle, and in comparing subsequent findings with prior studies to assess and report on trends.
 D. I have independently analyzed financial?events during an accounting cycle, and in comparing subsequent findings with prior studies to assess and report on trends.
 E. I have extensive experience analyzing financial events during an accounting cycle, and in comparing subsequent findings with prior studies to assess and report on trends.
4. Which of the following best describes your experience preparing Federal financial statements based on a review of financial data to determine if it meets agency objectives?

 A. I do not have any experience with Federal financial statements.
 B. I have limited experience with Federal financial statements.
 C. I have a moderate level of experience with Federal financial statements.
 D. I have a detailed level of experience with Federal financial statements.
 E. I have an expert level of experience with Federal financial statements.
5. Indicate from the choices below your familiarity with the federal government financial accounting and budgeting systems, policies, and practices, and regulations and procedural guidelines promulgated by OMB, GAO, FMS, and DHS.

 A. I have experience interpreting, implementing, and providing guidance and direction to staff members in the preparation and analysis of the above financial documents.
 B. I have experience performing and communicating the results of the review and analysis of trial balances, supporting financial schedules or financial statements and reports to management officials, as well as, recommending resolutions to identified issues/concerns.
 C. I have experience conducting analyses of financial statements and reports and identifying trends/issues or problems.
 D. I do not have any of the experience described above.
6. Select those financial laws and regulations which you have used in order to perform a position that you have held.
 A. Treasury US Standard General Ledger (USSGL)
 B. Treasury Account Symbol Adjusted Trial Balance System (GTAS)
 C. Office of Managment and Budget (OMB)
 D. Government Accountability Office (GAO)
 E. OMB Circulars A-123
 F. OMB Circulars A-127
 G. OMB Circulars A-130
 H. Prompt Pay Act
 I. Debt Collection Improvement Act (DCIA)
 J. Adjusted Trial Balance System (GTAS)
 K. DHS Treasury Information Executive Repository (TIER)
 L. Other financial laws and regulations
 M. None of the above
7. Which of the following best describes your experience preparing accounting and financial reports using accounting policies and concepts in order to ensure the presentation of sound and reliable financial data?

 A. I have not prepared reports of this nature.
 B. I have received education and training which has equipped me to prepare reports of this nature, but I have not performed these duties on the job.
 C. I have been a member of a team that prepared reports of this nature using accounting policies and concepts in order to ensure the presentation of sound and reliable financial data, but I have not had responsibility to perform these duties independently.
 D. I have independently prepared reports of this nature using accounting policies and concepts in order to ensure the presentation of sound and reliable financial data. I am proficient at this function.
 E. I am highly skilled at preparing reports of this nature based on accounting policies and concepts in order to ensure the presentation of sound and reliable financial data. I have led others in preparing reports, including the interpretation and application of accounting policies and concepts. I have also developed procedures or policy recommendations to ensure accuracy and reliability of reports of this nature.
8. I have experience performing the following tasks in the area of accounting:
 A. Providing analysis and advice regarding accounting programs and financial systems.
 B. Reconciling, researching, and resolving balances and variances for financial reporting validity, through knowledge of proprietary and budgetary relationships and effective communications with stake holders
 C. Developing solutions to complex accounting problems in large automated accounting systems
 D. Working with a complex accounting system (and/or systems) and performing analysis for new and unusual accounting situations and determining their proper treatment.
 E. Analyzing financial data to determine whether existing operations, procedures, policies and reports meet agency objectives.
 F. Providing professional accounting advice and assistance.
 G. Analyzing Standard General Ledger account-based accounting transactions.
 H. Recommending process improvement or re-engineering to correct identified deficiencies.
 I. Monitoring techniques (reconciliation and balancing) and skill in analyzing financial events during an accounting cycle, and in comparing subsequent findings with prior studies to assess and report on trends.
 J. None of the above.
9. Which of the following best describes your experience coordinating the maintenance of an accounting system or its modules the application of rules and regulations regarding expenditures, revenue, and cash collections; delivery of customer-oriented fiscal services; and the proper methods of selecting various data for recording financial transactions?

 A. I have not coordinated the maintenance of an accounting system or its modules and sub-systems.
 B. I have received education and training which has equipped me with the ability to coordinate the maintenance of an accounting system or its modules and sub-systems, but I have not performed these duties on the job.
 C. I have been a member of a team that coordinated the maintenance of an accounting system or its modules and sub-systems to ensure the accuracy of financial data, but I have not had responsibility for performing these duties independently.
 D. I have independently coordinated the maintenance of an accounting system or its modules and sub-systems to ensure the accuracy of financial data. I am proficient at this function.
 E. I am highly skilled at coordinating the maintenance of an accounting system or its modules and sub-systems to ensure the accuracy of financial data. I have led others in performing such maintenance and have tested system enhancements to determine their accuracy and processing efficiency.
10. From the answer choices below, please select the one that best reflects your ability to communicate accounting and/or financial issues with stakeholders, verbally or written.

 A. I have presented verbal accounting and/or financial issues to stakeholders.
 B. I have present written accounting and/or financial issues to stakeholders.
 C. I have present verbal AND written accounting and/or financial issues to stakeholders.
 D. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
11. Have you presented performance and financial data to managers, supervisors, and/or other staff personnel by giving oral reports and presentations?
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, ALL of the information provided on this application is true, accurate, and complete, and that this application for employment is made in good faith. I understand that a false statement on any part of this application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that I may be punished by fine or imprisonment for falsification of my employment application (18 USC 1001). I understand that information I give may be investigated as allowed by law or Executive order. Do you understand and agree to all the above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected