Position Title
Supervisory Auditor (Associate Executive Director)
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OT-IMP-12757555-KEG Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 16, 2025 to Tuesday, July 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1.
Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from DHS?  If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-14 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-14 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-14 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-15 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
3. This position requires the ability to operate a Government Owned Vehicle. Do you have a valid, non-restricted driver's license or will you be able to obtain a valid, non-restricted driver's license before the time of appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
5. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
6. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
7. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-15 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes; Leading, coordinating, and providing operational oversight of an audit organization setting comprehensive strategies, national audit planning and enterprise risk management plans for audit teams. Conducting audits of large U.S. based and multinational external entities where audit procedures require comprehensive analyses of accounting systems, financial records, internal controls, and business activities that are performed in accordance with Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards (GAGAS) or Generally Accepted Auditing Standards (GAAS). Identifying business process improvements, including augmenting automation maintenance and enhancements by ensuring development of key delivery performance measurements and system development lifecycle management of end-to-end implementation. Issuing technical auditor policy and guidance on delivery and development of training, including procurement of internally developed technical audit training covering all personnel within an organization. Providing program oversight on quality assurance procedures, including peer review and self-inspection, in accordance with Generally Accepted Auditing Standards (GAGAS).
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
8. The following question(s) will be used to determine whether or not you meet the Mandatory Basic Requirement for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following statements best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the basic requirement for the auditor position? I understand that I am required to submit proof of any educational claim.
 A. I have successfully completed a bachelor's (4-year) or higher degree in accounting or auditing (Conferred Transcript Required).
 B. I have a bachelor's (4-year) or higher degree including auditing courses in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law (Conferred Transcript Required).
 C. I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting OR equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training AND I have 24 semester hours in accounting/auditing, which can include up to 6 hours of business law (Transcript(s) Required).
 D. I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting/auditing OR equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training; AND I have a certificate as a Certified Public Accountant or Certified Internal Auditor obtained through written examination (Certification Required).
 E. I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting/auditing OR equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training; AND completion of the requirements for a 4-year bachelor’s degree (4-year) that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A, provided that (a) applicant successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants/auditors has determined that the applicant has demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in paragraph A; and (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, the applicant's education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements (Transcript(s) Required).
 F. I do not meet any of the above requirements.
9. All newly appointed, GS-15s are required to complete mandatory leadership training. The Office of Training and Development will schedule eligible managers to attend the training within the first 90 days of appointment. All newly appointed, permanent GS-15s shall attain the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to successfully perform their responsibilities by completing required leadership training in accordance with agency policy.

NOTE: This training may be waived if previously completed.

Do you acknowledge that you will be required to schedule the mandatory training within the first 90-days of your appointment and complete the training in Harpers Ferry, WV unless you have already completed this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. If selected for this position, you must successfully complete a multi-week training at a designated training facility as outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement. Failure to successfully complete the required training course(s) in accordance with the standards and policies of Customs and Border Protection will be grounds for removal from the position. Such failure will result in either reassignment to a former or different position, demotion, or separation by appropriate procedures.

If you have previously attended this training, the requirement may be waived. If you answer "no" to the training agreement acknowledgment question below, you will be removed from further consideration for this position.

Do you acknowledge the training requirement and agree to the terms outlined in the job opportunity announcement and above?
 A. Yes, I confirm that I understand and agree to the term as outlined in the job opportunity announcement and above.
 B. No, I do not agree to the training requirement terms and understand that I will be removed from further consideration for this position.
11. Select a location preference from the list below. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for more information.
--Select-- 
--Select--
Ashburn, VA
Atlanta, GA
Boston, MA
Charlotte, NC
Chicago, IL
Detroit, MI
Houston, TX
Laredo, TX
Long Beach, CA
Miami, FL
New York, NY
Newark, NJ
Philadelphia, PA
San Francisco, CA
San Jose, CA
Washington, DC
Assessment 1
The following question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Select the option that best describes your experience determining compliance with applicable laws and regulations related to the Regulatory Audit and Agency Advisory Services (RAAAS).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have provided assistance to others in the determination of compliance with applicable laws and regulations related to RAAAS.
 C. I have determined compliance with applicable laws and regulations related to RAAAS at the division level.
 D. I have determined compliance with applicable laws and regulations related to RAAAS at the office/agency level.
2. Select the option that best describes your experience in managing operations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have temporarily managed minor portions of division operations to cover for a supervisor on leave, TDY, etc.
 C. I regularly manage portions of division operations.
 D. I regularly manage all aspects of division operations.
3. Select the option that best describes your experience in evaluating the effectiveness of various branches in implementing policies, procedures, and systems to ensure successful accomplishment of the TRA Trade Regulatory Audit (TRA) mission.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted a supervisor in evaluating the effectiveness of the various branches (Policy, Continuing Professional Education, and Quality Assurance) with implementing the necessary policies, procedures, and systems to ensure successful accomplishment of the RAAAS mission.
 C. I have evaluated the effectiveness of a single branch with implementing the necessary policies, procedures, and systems to ensure successful accomplishment of the RAAAS mission.
 D. I have evaluated the effectiveness of the various branches (Policy, Continuing Professional Education, and Quality Assurance) with implementing the necessary policies, procedures, and systems to ensure successful accomplishment of the RAAAS mission.
 E. I have evaluated the effectiveness of the various branches (Policy, Continuing Professional Education, and Quality Assurance) with implementing the necessary policies, procedures, and systems to ensure successful accomplishment of the RAAAS mission. I have made recommendations to the different branches that were implemented regarding ways to improve the implementation of policies, procedures, and systems.
4. Select the option that best describes your experience in ensuring that employees complete work assignments.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have provided feedback to a supervisor regarding my coworkers' completion of work assignments.
 C. I have regularly checked the work of one or two employees with follow up to ensure their work was completed in a satisfactory and timely manner.
 D. I have regularly checked the work of a team with follow up to ensure their work was completed in a satisfactory and timely manner.
 E. I have regularly checked the work of all employees in a branch office with follow up to ensure their work was completed in a satisfactory and timely manner.
5. Select the option which best describes your experience in providing guidance regarding the application of Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards (GAGAS) to various audit programs.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have provided guidance to coworkers regarding the application of GAGAS to various audit programs.
 C. As a supervisor, I have provided guidance to subordinates regarding the application of GAGAS to various audit programs.
 D. As a supervisor, I have provided guidance to subordinates and other field personnel regarding the application of GAGAS to various audit programs.
 E. As a supervisor, I have provided guidance to subordinates, other field personnel, and senior leadership regarding the application of GAGAS to various audit programs.
6. Select the option which best describes your experience in incorporating changes into a training program.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted a supervisor to ensure that changes in the organization, laws, regulations, auditing standards, and techniques are incorporated into a training program in a timely manner.
 C. I have ensured that certain changes are incorporated into a training program in a timely manner.
 D. I have ensured that all changes in the organization, laws, regulations, auditing standards, and techniques are incorporated into a training program in a timely manner.
 E. I have ensured that all changes in the organization, laws, regulations, auditing standards, and techniques are incorporated into a training program in a timely manner. I have provided expert guidance to subordinates regarding the incorporation of changes into the training program.
7. Select the option which best describes your experience in ensuring audit staff possess and retain necessary skills and technical proficiency.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted in ensuring that my coworkers and I possess and retain the skills and technical proficiency through Continuing Professional Education, as required by Government Auditing Standards.
 C. As a team leader, I have ensured that members of my team possess and retain the skills and technical proficiency through Continuing Professional Education, as required by Government Auditing Standards.
 D. As a supervisor, I have ensured that members of multiple teams within my branch possess and retain the skills and technical proficiency through Continuing Professional Education, as required by Government Auditing Standards.
 E. As a manager, I have ensured that members of multiple teams within multiple branches possess and retain the skills and technical proficiency through Continuing Professional Education, as required by Government Auditing Standards.
8. Select the option which best describes your experience in overseeing training course development.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted in the administrative work needed for training (e.g., disseminating classroom material to students, making edits to material and lesson plans).
 C. I have helped in the development of instructor lesson plans and student classroom material for training programs for subject matter related to the Regulatory Audit and Agency Advisory Services (RAAAS) work.
 D. I have overseen technical auditor internal training course development, including the development of instructor lesson plans and student classroom material, for a single training program for subject matter related to the RAAAS work.
 E. I have overseen technical auditor internal training course development, including the development of instructor lesson plans and student classroom material, for multiple training programs for subject matter related to the RAAAS work.
9. Have you coordinated with the Field Offices and Headquarters Divisions, as needed, to promote consistency and ensure quality work products?

 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Indicate the extent of your experience communicating effectively orally.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have prepared and presented routine updates to my coworkers and supervisor regarding the status of various projects.
 C. I have prepared and presented status reports/briefings to my supervisor at scheduled Field Office/branch meetings.
 D. I have prepared and presented status reports/briefings to senior leadership at scheduled program reviews.
 E. I have prepared and presented status reports/briefings to senior leadership at both scheduled and non-scheduled program reviews and other meetings.
11. Indicate the extent of your experience communicating effectively in writing.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written short responses to routine requests for information.
 C. I have written portions of reports, information papers, and other documents.
 D. I have independently prepared reports and other presentations on auditing and other financial matters.
 E. I have independently prepared presentations and written arguments for a wide variety of key decision points (e.g., annual audit plan, collection and storage of data, adherence to Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards, etc.), in addition to preparing reports and other presentations on auditing and other financial matters.
12. Indicate the extent of your experience leading individuals.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have led a small team of individuals (3-5 people) with the completion of routine work and minor projects.
 C. I have led a small team of individuals (3-5 people) with the completion of routine work, minor projects, and major projects.
 D. I have led a large team of individuals (6+ people) with the completion of routine work, minor projects, and major projects.
 E. I have led multiple teams of individuals with the completion of routine work, minor projects, and major projects.
13. Indicate the extent of your knowledge with auditing policy and legislation.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have limited knowledge of policy and legislation related to auditing, but have not applied this knowledge in my work.
 C. I have knowledge of policy and legislation related to auditing, and have used that knowledge to oversee the planning and execution of an auditing program.
 D. I have extensive knowledge of policy and legislation related to auditing, and have used that knowledge to oversee multiple auditing programs.
14. Indicate the extent of your experience promoting teamwork and cooperation.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have promoted teamwork and cooperation within a team in a Field Office branch.
 C. I have promoted teamwork and cooperation within multiple teams in a Field Office branch.
 D. I have promoted teamwork and cooperation across multiple Field Office branches.
15. Indicate the extent of your experience multitasking.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had to perform 2-3 tasks at a time in which all tasks had short deadlines.
 C. I have had to perform 4 or more tasks at a time in which all tasks had short deadlines.
 D. I have had to perform 2-3 tasks at a time in which all tasks had short deadlines, in addition to performing various supervisory duties.
 E. I have had to perform 4 or more tasks at a time in which all tasks had short deadlines, in addition to performing various supervisory duties.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected