Position Title
Diagnostic Radiologic Technology
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12752680-25-CMC Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, June 23, 2025 to Wednesday, July 9, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
In accordance with Office of the Chief Human Capital Officer (OCHCO) Bulletin, Annual Determination of Staffing Shortages dated October 1, 2024; Diagnostic Radiologic Technologists (DRTs), 0647 (all specializations are included) are not subject to Veterans Preference. This will continue until September 30, 2025. Veterans Preference will not be collected for this announcement.
The following section is used to determine your minimum qualifications for appointment with the Federal Government. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING. YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSES YOU SELECT.
For each task in the following group, choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training.
Federal regulations require a person appointed in any direct care capacity to possess such basic proficiency in spoken and written English as will permit such degree of communication with patients and other health-care personnel as will enable the person to carry out the person's health-care responsibilities satisfactorily.
1. Are you proficient in spoken and written English, as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d) and 7407(d)?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Have you completed a full-time training course of at least 24 months duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate's degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from schools accredited by the ARRT and certification by the ARRT in radiology?
Note: transcript or educational documentation must be submitted.

 A. Yes
 B. No, but I meet the grandfathering provision in that I was a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist in the Department of Veterans' Affairs at the GS-9 or higher grade level on December 13, 2019, and have been continuously employed as a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist since December 13, 2019. (Copies of ALL SF-50's from December 13, 2019 to present are required to be uploaded as part of your application.)
 C. No
3. Are you certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology (ARRT) (R)?
Note: Copy of ARRT certification must be submitted for consideration.

 A. Yes
 B. No, but I meet the grandfathering provision in that I was a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist in the Department of Veterans' Affairs at the GS-9 or higher grade level on December 13, 2019, and have been continuously employed as a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist since December 13, 2019. (Copies of ALL SF-50's from December 13, 2019 to present are required to be uploaded as part of your application.)
 C. No.
DRTs perform procedures and examinations in hospitals or clinics under the direction of radiologists and other medical officers. The objective of the examinations and procedures is to produce radiographic studies that are used in medical diagnosis and interpreted by medical officers to locate injuries, foreign bodies, pathological conditions, or lesions within the body. They prepare and administer contrast media and medications in accordance with State and Federal regulations. All DRTs must be knowledgeable in computerized and digital radiography (CR/DR), and picture archiving and communications systems (PACS). For all assignments above the full performance level, the higher-level duties must consist of significant scope, complexity (difficulty), and range of variety, and be performed by the incumbent at least 25% of the time.
4. Do you possess 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the full performance level (GS-8), which is directly related to the position to be filled? Employees at this level are fully functional as an advanced DRT and carry out their assigned tasks independently. DRTs at this level may have varying assignments including special and complex imaging procedures beyond the full performance level, clinical instruction, and basic QM type duties within the program.

In addition to the above, your experience, as listed in your resume, must demonstrate all of the following technical KSAs and demonstrate the potential to acquire the assignment-specific KSAs designated by an asterisk (*):

-Ability to balance the needs of patients and staff while still performing complex scans and procedures.
-Knowledge of techniques for gathering relevant information from the medical record, significant others, and health care providers.
-Ability to assess factors that may contraindicate the procedure.
-Knowledge of basic first aid and basic life support practices related to radiography.
-Knowledge of physical assessment, aseptic techniques, intravenous methods and techniques and universal precautions.
-Knowledge of pre-procedural, procedural, and post-procedural care of patients.

 A. Yes.
 B. No
RESUME Reminder- ALTHOUGH NOT REQUIRED, ITS HIGHLY RECOMMENDED THAT APPLICANTS COMPLETE THEIR RESUME' USING THE USAJOBS RESUME' BUILDER. Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: (REQUIRED) Employer's Name Employer's City, State Job title (if a federal job, separate by grade level(s)) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008 or 06/07-04/08) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week, i.e. 32 hours per week, 20 hours per week, etc. Duties (be as detailed as possible) Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we can fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. Details of your experience and clearly document your ability to demonstrate the KSAs of grade level you are applying to. NOTE: We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.
Transcript Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you MUST SUBMIT a copy of your TRANSCRIPTS with your application. Diplomas are NOT suitable substitutions for your transcripts and will not be accepted. (REQUIRED)
SF-50 Reminder- Applicants who are current Federal employees must upload a copy of their SF-50(s), dated in the current calendar year, with application. Failure to submit the required document(s) may result in NOT being referred.
LICENSURE/CERTIFICATION REMINDER - If the position requires a licensure/certification to qualify, you must submit a copy of your licensure/certification with your application.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected