Position Title
ACCOUNTANT (STAFF)
Agency
Defense Threat Reduction Agency
Announcement Number
DTRA-25-12803727-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 19, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. .

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. From the descriptions below, select the letter that best describes your level of specialized experience for the Accountant (Staff), GS-0510-13 position. To be creditable, specialized experience must be at the next lower grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. Read each of the statements below completely before making your selection.

 A. I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. Specialized Experience is defined as: Experience making decisions or recommendations significantly changing, interpreting, or developing important accounting policies or programs, and solving a variety of accounting problems. Experience performing and documenting the testing of internal controls of financial reporting and financial systems and implementing corrective actions for deficiencies identified during internal controls testing or by the financial statement auditors. Experience applying financial and accounting principles, including the latest procedures and techniques, to formulate or modify practices related to accounting programs, systems, function and policies. Experience performing financial reconciliations and analysis of financial statements. (Experience must be clearly demonstrated in your resume)
 B. I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.
2. The purpose of this question is to verify whether you meet the Individual Occupational Requirements for this position. Please select the answer that best describes your qualifying education. All education must have been received from an accredited college or university. (Failure to answer this question will make you ineligible.)

 A. Accounting Series, 0510; Degree: accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing" in this standard. Similarly, "accountant" should be interpreted, generally, as "accountant and/or auditor.")
 B. Accounting Series, 0510; Combination of education and experience: at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. The applicant's background must also include one of the following: • Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; • A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; or • Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A, provided that (a) the applicant has successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors has determined that the applicant has demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in paragraph A; and (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, the applicant's education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements.
 C. My education and/or combination of education and experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.
3. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience with applying Federal generally accepted accounting principles and federal regulations and ensuring compliance.

 A. I routinely performed analysis and made decisions or recommendations to ensure the teams’ compliance with accounting standards and federal government regulations.
 B. I have performed analysis and made decisions or recommendations to ensure the teams’ compliance with accounting standards and federal government regulations.
 C. I have some experience performing analysis and making decisions or recommendations to ensure the teams’ compliance with accounting standards and federal government regulations.
 D. I don’t have experience working with compliance with accounting standards and federal government regulations.
4. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience with applying knowledge of federal contracts, customer orders and the obligation and commercial payment processes to research and resolve financial reporting errors.

 A. I routinely apply federal contract and customer order knowledge to research and resolve financial reporting errors.
 B. I have applied knowledge of federal contracts and customer orders to research and resolve financial reporting errors.
 C. I have some experience applying federal contract and customer order knowledge to research and resolve financial reporting errors.
 D. I don’t have experience applying federal contract and customer order knowledge to research and resolve financial reporting errors.
5. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience analyzing funding and accounting problems encountered when performing daily business and developing recommendations.

 A. I have routinely interpreted accounting policies and standards to make decisions and recommend corrective actions.
 B. I have interpreted accounting policies and standards to make decisions and recommend corrective actions.
 C. I have some experience interpreting accounting policies and standards to make decisions and recommend corrective actions. However, with complex situations I require assistance from others.
 D. I don’t have experience interpreting accounting policies and standards to make decisions and recommend corrective actions.
6. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience with financial systems.

 A. I have extensive experience and expertise working with accounting, entitlement, and payment systems in an accounting operations environment.
 B. I have routine experience and expertise working with accounting, entitlement, and payment systems in an accounting operations environment.
 C. I have some experience working with accounting, entitlement, and payment systems in an accounting operations environment.
 D. I don’t have experience working with accounting, entitlement and payment systems.
7. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience analyzing financial statements and related disclosures.

 A. I have routinely analyzed financial statements and related disclosures.
 B. I have analyzed financial statements and related disclosures.
 C. I have some experience analyzing financial statements and related disclosures. However, with complex situations I require assistance from others.
 D. None of the above.
8. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience with performing analysis and reconciliation of accounts to achieve problem resolution.

 A. I have extensive experience and expertise in performing complex reconciliations and problem resolution with financial data/systems.
 B. I have limited experience and expertise in performing complex reconciliations and problem resolution with financial data/systems.
 C. I have some experience performing reconciliations and problem resolution, however with complex situations I require assistance from others.
 D. I have not performed reconciliations and problem resolution.
9. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience with performing complex General Ledger reconciliations.

 A. I have extensive experience and expertise performing complex General Ledger reconciliations.
 B. I have experience performing complex General Ledger reconciliations.
 C. I have some experience performing reconciliations but not with General Ledger.
 D. I don’t have experience performing reconciliations.
10. Please select the statement that best describes your ability to perform complex analysis and reconciliation of budgetary transactions with a financial system.

 A. I have extensive experience and expertise in performing complex analysis and reconciliation of budgetary transactions with a financial system.
 B. I have significant experience performing complex analysis and reconciliation of budgetary transactions with a financial system.
 C. I have limited experience performing complex analysis and reconciliation of budgetary transactions with a financial system.
 D. I do not have experience performing complex analysis and reconciliation of budgetary transactions with a financial system.
11. Please select the statement that best describes your ability to communicate the results of analysis and reconciliations.

 A. I have extensive experience communicating the results of analysis and reconciliations to management, program management offices and customers including results of findings and recommendations on how to resolve issues.
 B. I am able to communicate orally and in writing with managers and supervisors to influence or recommend solutions to findings and/or issues.
 C. I have provided input to management to clarify information and resolve issues.
 D. I do not have any of the experience above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected