Position Title
Program Analyst Behavior and Inclusion Analyst
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12812292 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, October 6, 2025 to Monday, October 20, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Program Analyst (Behavior & Inclusion), position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.




Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have five or more years of full-time experience working with children with special needs within child youth program settings?

 Yes
 No


2.
What is your highest level of education?
 I have a bachelor’s degree or higher in Special Education or a closely related field.
 I have master’s degree or higher in Child Development, Early Childhood Education, Secondary Education, Psychology, Social Work, Youth Development, or closely related field.
 I have a bachelor’s degree in child development, Early Childhood Education, Secondary Education, Psychology, Social Work, Youth Development, or closely related field.
 I have a combination of education and experience, including 24 higher level semester hours in Child Development, Early Childhood Education, Secondary Education, Special Education, Psychology, Social Work, Youth Development, or closely related field.
 I have a non-related degree.
 I have none of the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have with creating and implementing support plans for children and youth with complex behaviors and developmental needs?


 I have 5+ years of experience as described above.
 I have 3 – 5 years of experience as described above.
 I have 1 – 3 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have partnering with educators, specialists, and parents to create a unified and supportive environment for children?


 I have 5+ years of experience as described above.
 I have 3 – 5 years of experience as described above.
 I have 1 – 3 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


5.
How many years of experience do you have with observing, assessing, and documenting children's progress and needs, using formal and informal assessment tools?



 I have 5+ years of experience as described above.
 I have 3 – 5 years of experience as described above.
 I have 1 – 3 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


6.
Please select all related professional credentials you possess:

 
 A. Certified Professional in Disability Management (CDPM)
 B. Certified Special Education Teacher (CSET)
 C. Board Certified Behavior Analyst (BCBA)
 D. Certified Inclusion Professional (CIP)
 E. Specialist in Autism (SA)
 F. National Board Certification in Exceptional Needs
 G. I do not possess any of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙