Position Title
Attorney-Adviser (General)
Agency
Office of the Secretary of Health and Human Services
Announcement Number
HHS-OGC-DE-25-12802708 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 30, 2025 to Wednesday, December 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the Department of Health and Human Services? If yes, confirm:
• You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• Your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy AND
• Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 and the most current Performance Appraisal. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center page (https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/federal-employees/ctap/).
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 and a copy of the most current Performance Appraisal.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center. (https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/federal-employees/ictap/)
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Denver, CO
 B. Washington, DC
 C. Atlanta, GA
 D. Baltimore, MD
 E. Kansas City, MO
 F. Philadelphia, PA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12
13
14


BASIC REQUIREMENTS FOR GS-0905
1.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your education and meets the Basic Qualification Requirements for Attorney Advisor General), GS-0905.
 I have successfully completed a Juris Doctorate (J.D.) or Bachelor of Laws (LL.B.) from an accredited college and/or university. (Must provide copy of transcript)
 I do not possess a Juris Doctorate (J.D.) or Bachelor of Laws (LL.B.) from an accredited college and/or university.


2.
Do you possess a current active bar membership from any State, territory, Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, District of Columbia, or Federal Court?
 Yes. I possess a current active bar membership from any State, territory, Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, District of Columbia, or Federal Court. (Must provide copy of bar membership)
 No. I do not possess a current active bar membership from any State, territory, Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, District of Columbia, or Federal Court.


MINIMUMQUALIFICATIONS FOR GS-0905-11
1.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your education and meets the Additional Qualification Requirements for Attorney Advisor (General), GS-0905-11.
 I have completed a Juris Doctorate (J.D.) or Bachelor of Laws (LL.B.) from an accredited educational institution AND possess a current active bar membership from any State, territory, Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, District of Columbia, or Federal Court.
 I do not possess a Juris Doctorate (J.D.) or Bachelor of Laws (LL.B.) from an accredited educational institution nor possess a current active bar membership from any State, territory, Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, District of Columbia, or Federal Court.


MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR GS-0905-12
1.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your experience and meets the Additional Qualification Requirements for Attorney Advisor (General), GS-0905-12.
 I have one (1) year of experience post bar admission in employment law litigation and advice work, outstanding client counseling skills; superior legal writing and research ability with a demonstrated commitment to professionalism, ethics, civility and public service equivalent to the GS-11 level in the Federal service.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR GS-0905-13
1.

From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your experience and meets the Additional Qualification Requirements for Attorney Advisor (General), GS-0905-13.
 I have two (2) years experience post bar admission in employment law litigation and advice work, outstanding client counseling skills; superior legal writing and research ability with a demonstrated commitment to professionalism, ethics, civility and public service equivalent to the GS-12 level in the Federal service.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR GS-0905-14
1.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your experience and meets the Additional Qualification Requirements for Attorney Advisor (General), GS-0905-14.
 I have three (3) years of experience post bar admission in employment law litigation and advice work, outstanding client counseling skills; superior legal writing and research ability with a demonstrated commitment to professionalism, ethics, civility and public service equivalent to the GS-13 level in the Federal service.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙