Position Title
Maintenance Helper
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12811205 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 2, 2025 to Tuesday, October 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have a valid driver's license and are you able to maintain it?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have the ability to care for, check fluids and determine the proper operation of a vehicle?
 Yes
 No


3.
Describe your specific general experience in multiple trades: Carpentry, Electrical, Painting, Plumbing, HVAC, Vehicle Mechanics, Heavy Equipment Operator and Metal Working.
 Specific experience that involves 5 or more of the above.
 Specific experience that involves 4 of the above.
 Specific experience that involves 3 of the above.
 Specific experience that involves 2 of the above.
 No specific experience but have general maintenance knowledge with the capability to learn.
 No experience.


4.
Do you have at least one year of experience in a maintenance/trade position?
 Yes
 No


5.
Describe your experience with small construction or renovation projects. Demonstrated ability to read and understand construction drawings, do material take-offs/estimating, knowledge of plumbing and electrical codes.
 Demonstrated ability to perform all the above skills.
 Experience that involves some of the above, but not all items.
 No experience.


6.
Describe your experience with grounds maintenance and snow removal.
 Extensive experience with both.
 Some experience with both.
 Extensive experience with one.
 Some experience with one.
 No experience.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙