Position Title
Supervisory Management and Program Analyst
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OT-IMP-12806830-TTL Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 30, 2025 to Tuesday, October 7, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.


1.
Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 Yes
 No


3.
Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of GS-14?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Federal employees who competed for and currently hold, or have previously held, a permanent position of GS-14 (or equivalent) or higher, may be referred for selection without competition under our agency promotion procedures. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-11 position with promotion potential to the GS-13.  The progression is GS-11, GS-12, and GS-13.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-13.
Your current position is a GS-13. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-14 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-13.
Your current position is a GS-13. You previously held a GS-14 position on a permanent basis.  GS-14 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 Yes
 No


2.
There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 level.
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-14 grade level (or equivalent).
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.


3.
If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.


4.
If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.


5.
I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.
The most current version of the Document Type labeled "resume" is the only document that will be considered and it is your responsibility to tailor your resume to explicitly detail how your experience fulfills the general/specialized experience requirements outlined in this job announcement otherwise you could be found not qualified.
Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Be two pages or less in length
Include full legal name
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.


6.
This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-14 grade level?
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes assigning work to and coordinating activities of subordinate employees based on organization priorities. Advising and providing analytical support on problem definition, planning methodologies, policies, and procedures. Providing technical assistance and direct support to management staff in all matters relating to the application of planning system and management programs to meet mission requirements. Providing technical assistance and direct support to management staff in all matters relating to the application of planning system and management programs to meet mission requirements.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.


7.

All newly appointed, first-time CBP supervisors are required to complete the mandatory leadership training. The Office of Training and Development will schedule eligible supervisors to attend within the first 90 days of appointment. All newly appointed, first time permanent supervisors shall attain the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to successfully perform their supervisory responsibilities by completing required leadership training in accordance with current agency policy.

NOTE: This training may be waived if previously completed.

Do you acknowledge that you have read and understand the above requirement, including current or former first time supervisors who have previously completed the mandatory training and will not be required to retake the course?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
21.
Indicate the extent of your experience in improving the efficiency and quality of the work performed.

 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have made specific changes that have improved my efficiency and the quality of my work.
 I have recommended specific changes that have improved my work unit's efficiency and the quality of its work.
 I have recommended changes that have been adopted by multiple work units and have improved their efficiency and the quality of their work.


22.
Indicate the extent of your experience in monitoring or developing performance measurements to evaluate the effectiveness of operations and/or assist in program administration.

 I have had no experience or training in performing this task.
 I have made recommendations based on my evaluation of performance measurements used to determine the effectiveness of operations and/or program administration.
 I have developed performance measurements used to evaluate the effectiveness of operations and/or assist in program administration, and have monitored the use of these measurements.
 I have supervised the development of performance measurements used to evaluate the effectiveness of operations and program administration, as well as the evaluation of operations and program administration.


23.
Select the choice which best describes your ability to establish and maintain effective working relations outside of the organization.
 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have provided routine information, resolved simple problems, questions, or complaints, and directed nonroutine problems, questions, or complaints to the appropriate person/office.
 I have maintained relationships with members of the public who have varied needs, assessed their needs, and provided moderately complex information to them. I have resolved fairly complex or nonroutine problems, questions, or complaints.
 I have developed and maintained relationships with interest groups with varied needs, anticipated and assessed their needs, and provided complex information to them. I have resolved complex or nonroutine problems, questions, or complaints.


24.
Indicate the extent to which you have gathered and analyzed facts, determined the accuracy of the data, defined the problem, and identified solutions.

 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have gathered data/information in preparation for analysis by others.
 I have gathered data/information, analyzed it, and summarized the results of my findings.
 I have gathered data/information, performed analyses, summarized results, and identified problem areas.
 I have gathered statistical data and narrative information, performed analyses, summarized results, identified problem areas, and proposed/implemented solutions.


25.
Have you independently planned, scheduled, and carried out major processes and projects?

 YES
 NO


26.
Indicate the extent of your experience in handling stressful situations.

 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have dealt with occasional periods of mild stress as part of my regular job duties.
 As part of my regular job duties, I have dealt on a daily basis with moderate stress (for example, handling heavy workloads, meeting tight deadlines).
 As part of my regular job duties, I have frequently dealt with highly stressful situations (for example, rapidly changing priorities, dealing face-to-face with hostile or violent individuals, handling crisis situations).


27.
Select the choice which best describes the extent of your knowledge of internal and external politics in the work place and your ability to apply this knowledge to situations.

 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have a basic understanding of internal and external politics in the work place.
 I have a thorough understanding of internal and external politics in the work place, acquired through on-the-job experience and formal training, and I have routinely applied this knowledge in work situations.
 I have expert knowledge of internal and external politics in the work place, acquired from extensive supervisory/managerial experience, and I have applied this knowledge to enhance the effectiveness of my organization.


28.
Indicate the extent of your experience in responding to Congressional, interagency, intra-agency, or industry inquiries/complaints.

 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have drafted portions of responses for higher-level review on Congressional, interagency, intra-agency, or industry inquiries based on my understanding of Federal laws, rules, regulations, policies and procedures.
 I have written responses/testimony and represented the organization on Congressional, interagency, intra-agency, or industry inquiries based on knowledge of Federal laws, rules, regulations, policies, and procedures.


29.
Select the choice which best describes your ability to stimulate creative thinking and innovation in others.

 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have interacted with others on an individual basis seeking new solutions to a problem.
 I have participated in groups or panels that successfully formulated innovative methods to achieve an assigned task.
 I have led a group of employees in developing an innovative and improved process(es) in my field.


30.
Indicate the extent to which you have identified the impact and implications of alternative decisions on your program or organization.

 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have participated in brainstorming sessions convened to identify the impact of various proposals on a specific issue.
 I have led a workgroup charged with determining the most viable option for resolving a matter, and made a formal recommendation to superiors.
 I have developed and presented written analyses of the predicted impact on the organization at the national level of any of multiple alternative proposals, including justification for a recommended course of action.


31.
Indicate the extent of your experience in developing and interpreting policy on designated programs.

 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have assisted and provided input to my superiors or subject-matter experts concerning the development of a new policy or the application of a new policy to a specific program.
 I have drafted and/or studied proposals for the implementation of new policies or provided recommendations for the application of policies to a specific program.
 I have independently developed and implemented new policies that impacted a specific program or interpreted the program response to far-reaching policy directives.


32.
Indicate the extent of your experience in inspiring, motivating, and/or guiding others toward accomplishment of goals.

 I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 I have had limited experience, gained primarily as a team leader or acting supervisor, in inspiring, motivating, and/or guiding others toward the accomplishment of specific goals/objectives assigned to the team.
 I have had extensive experience, gained as a supervisor or manager, in inspiring, motivating, and/or guiding others toward the accomplishment of goals by monitoring their work and providing guidance, training, and/or direction as needed.


33.
Indicate the extent of your experience in building support for ideas and initiatives inside and outside the organization.

 I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 I have had limited experience in building support for ideas and initiatives inside and outside the organization gained by seeking support for ideas or initiatives under close guidance.
 I have sought support for ideas and initiatives with the result that these ideas/initiatives have been included in major recommendations made by others.
 I have analyzed the pros and cons of key ideas/initiatives and clearly elucidated these options with the result that the ideas/initiatives were successfully implemented.


34.
Indicate the extent of your experience in recruiting and selecting personnel.

 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have assisted others in the recruitment and selection of personnel.
 I have been responsible for recruiting personnel and developing recommendations for selection.
 I have overseen the recruitment of personnel, and I have made selections of staff members based on my own review and the recommendations of lower level staff members.


35.
Indicate the extent of your experience in monitoring and evaluating work plans.

 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 Under the close guidance of others, I have evaluated the effectiveness of work plans.
 I have independently evaluated the effectiveness of work plans and assessed progress toward achieving mission objectives.
 I have supervised and approved the work of those responsible for evaluating the effectiveness of work plans and assessed progress toward achieving mission objectives.


36.
Indicate the extent of your experience with equal opportunity programs and requirements.
 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have a basic knowledge of EEO programs and requirements acquired through relevant training courses or on-the-job experience.
 I have provided input in developing strategies needed to ensure progress toward strategic EEO goals or objectives.
 I have led others in developing strategies to ensure progress toward strategic EEO goals or objectives.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙