Position Title
Clinical Psychologist (Pediatrics)
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJH259739870357DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 11, 2025 to Wednesday, August 27, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.
1. This position requires regular contact with children under the age 18 and a favorable determination of suitability to do so. Are you willing to undergo a specific initial background checks, investigation and periodic re-verification check of multiple agency records to obtain and maintain a suitable determination to occupy a position having regular contact with children?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. This position requires Basic Life Support training certification from, or in accordance with, the American Heart Association and American Red Cross. Current Advanced Life Support or other advanced certification does not supersede BLS completion. Do you have, or are you willing to obtain and maintain BLS certification?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Employees assigned to a medical treatment facility are required to be screened for applicable immunizations or pre-existing immunity based on occupational risk, regardless of job series. This position is subject to screening and update of required immunizations unless exempted for medical or administrative reasons in accordance with Army Regulation 40-562, Chapters 3 and 4. A job offer to an applicant who is not a current employee subject to this requirement will be withdrawn if the candidate refuses to undergo immunization screening. Are you willing to consent to immunization screening and receive missing immunizations or submit required documentation to request exemption?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. This position has a mandatory seasonal influenza vaccination requirement and is subject to annual vaccination. A candidate tentatively selected for appointment to this position will be required to sign a statement consenting to annual seasonal influenza vaccination. A job offer to an applicant who is not a current employee subject to this requirement will be withdrawn if the candidate refuses to agree to undergo seasonal influenza vaccinations for other than medical or religious reasons. Such reasons must be supported by an acceptable statement from a credible, verifiable source. Are you willing to consent to, and receive seasonal influenza vaccinations or submit required documentation to request exemption?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 10% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 10% of the time?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. This position requires a valid, state-issued driver's license in order to obtain a USAREUR Driver's License and must be insurable in order to travel to other locations in the Command's structure. Do you possess, or are you willing and able to obtain and maintain a USAREUR Driver's License?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. This position has been designated "Mission Essential". In the event of severe weather conditions or other such emergency type situations (natural or man-made disaster) the incumbent is required to report to work or remain at work as scheduled to support mission operations. Are you willing and able to report to work or remain at work under adverse conditions to obtain and maintain this position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. This position requires the incumbent to successfully complete and maintain credentialing and privileging requirements in accordance with DHA Procedures Manual 6025.13, Volume 4. I understand and am willing to undergo the credentialing and privileging process.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Clinical Psychologist (Pediatrics) position with the Defense Health Agency. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1. Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Clinical Psychologist (Pediatrics) at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 A. I have a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 B. I do not possess the education described above.
2. Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Clinical Psychologist (Pediatrics) at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as a licensed clinical psychologist which includes performing psychological evaluations of children and adolescents, developing behavioral health treatment plans, and providing psychological counseling services.
 B. I do not possess the experience described above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. This position requires a current, active, valid, and unrestricted clinical license to practice Psychology independently offered by a U.S. State, District of Columbia, Commonwealth, territory, or jurisdiction. Do you possess a current, active, valid, and unrestricted clinical license to practice Psychology independently? (Note: You must attach a copy of your license.)

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected