Position Title
Management and Program Analyst (Fire) - Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Bureau of Land Management
Announcement Number
FADHA-25-12753528-CMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 2, 2025 to Thursday, July 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Career Transition Assistance Plan:  Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced or surplused from the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which I have been or will be separated; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.   
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan: Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am currently in a position at the same grade level or higher than the position being announced; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
9
11
Survey Questions
1. My resume contains hours worked per week for each season and position held. For example, 1 year of experience is equivalent to 12 months at 40 hours per week (full-time). Part-time hours are prorated. I understand that I will not receive any credit for a position listed that does not include hours worked per week.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. My resume contains the beginning and ending dates (month/year to month/year) and grade level (if federal service) for each period of work experience/employment. I understand failure to adequately include this information may affect my qualification determination for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I consent to the release of information about my ability and fitness for Federal employment by employers, schools, law enforcement agencies, and other individuals and organizations to investigators, human resource specialists, and other authorized employees or representatives of the Federal Government. I understand that for some other sources of information, a separate specific release may be needed, and I may be contacted for such a release at a later date.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I have read the "How to Apply" & "Required Documents" sections and understand that failure to submit any required documents may result in my being found not qualified.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I understand that additional selections may be made from this vacancy, within the same geographical area, by other bureaus from within the DOI, through shared recruiting activities, and my application may be shown to multiple hiring offices. Additional selections for similar positions across the entire Department of the Interior within the local commuting area(s) identified in this vacancy announcement may be made. By applying, I agree to have my application shared with any interested selecting official(s) within the DOI. There is no option to opt-out as my information will not be shared with other hiring agencies outside of the DOI. Applying to this announcement does not replace the need to apply to other job opportunity announcements for which you wish to receive consideration.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. I understand that I must ensure my resume, supporting documents (SF-50 or other official document to verify date of birth), transcripts, fire qualifications (IQCS), etc., are not password protected or contain redacted information that could make my application package ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported in your resume and supporting documents.
1. I qualify for the GS-09 because:

 A. I have one year of specialized experience, equivalent to GS-7 in the Federal service as a Management and Program Analyst or in a directly related position. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience to qualify for this position.
 B. I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree OR 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, OR LL.B. or J.D., if related. I will provide a copy of my college transcript(s).
 C. I have an equivalent combination of the type and level of experience and education described above. I will provide a copy of my college transcript(s).
 D. I do not have the specialized experience or education (or combination) described above.
2. I qualify for the GS-11 level because:

 A. I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-9 in the Federal service. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience qualifying for this position.
 B. I have a Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.M., if related. I will provide a copy of my college transcript(s).
 C. I have a combination of the specialized experience and graduate education described above. I will provide a copy of my college transcript(s).
 D. I do not meet any of the responses above.
3. Indicate the response that best describes your experience in analyzing and evaluating the effectiveness of program operations in meeting established goals and objectives, reporting findings, and preparing analyses and developing decision documents to effect organizational change.

 A. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
4. Indicate the extent to which you have gathered and analyzed facts, determined the accuracy of the data, defined the problem, and identified solutions.

 A. None of the above
 B. I have gathered data/information preparation for analysis by others.
 C. I have gathered data/information, analyzed it, and summarized the results of my findings.
 D. I have gathered data/information, performed analyses, summarized results, and identified problem areas.
 E. I have gathered statistical data and narrative information, performed analyses, summarized results, identified problem areas, and proposed/implemented solutions.
5. I analyze statistical data and studies associated with:

 A. Strategic Planning
 B. Process improvements
 C. Organizational management
 D. Customer surveys
 E. None of the above
6. Identify the management and program analysis task which you have performed.

 A. Analyzing and evaluating (on a quantitative or qualitative basis) the effectiveness of program operations in meeting established goals and objectives;
 B. Developing life cycle cost analyses of projects or performing cost benefit or economic evaluations of current or projected programs;
 C. Researching and investigating new or improved business and management practices for application to agency programs or operations;
 D. Analyzing management information requirements to develop program or administrative reporting systems including the systems specifications, data gathering and analytical techniques, and systems evaluation methodology;
 E. Analyzing new or proposed legislation or regulations to determine impact on program operations and management;
 F. Identifying data required for use in the management and direction of programs;
 G. Developing management and/or program evaluation plans, procedures, and methodology;
 H. Developing procedures and systems for establishing, operating, and assessing the effectiveness of administrative control systems such as those designed to prevent waste, loss, unauthorized use, or misappropriation of assets;
 I. Reviewing administrative audit and investigative reports to determine appropriate changes or corrective action required;
 J. None of the above.
7. Select the statement that best describes your analytical skills.

 A. I have experience independently carrying out analyses using quantitative and/or qualitative tools and presenting findings both orally and/or through written communications.
 B. I have been formally educated in the use of various analytical tools, both quantitative and qualitative, but have limited experience in applying them.
 C. I have no experience independently carrying out analyses and I have not been formally educated in the use of various analytical tools.
8. I perform work that regularly involves verifying the accuracy of information or the relevance of information to a problem, in order to respond to management inquiries.

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Do you have experience preparing analyses, reports, proposals and recommendations for senior management?

 A. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
10. Which of the following best describes your oral communication abilities and experience?

 A. I have regularly met with various levels of top management, senior staff, and members of industry or professional organizations. I have also been successful in negotiating compromises and obtained adoption of technical views and methods where conflicts existed.
 B. I have regularly interacted with co-workers and coordinated with Federal and non-Federal organizations to accomplish my work. I have also conducted seminars, training, and presentations for colleagues to relay new processes and techniques or project status.
 C. I have regularly interacted with co-workers and other Federal employees within the more immediate organization regarding the issues and timeliness of the services provided.
 D. I have regularly relayed information to co-workers and other employees within the organization.
 E. None of the above.
11. Select each of the statements that apply regarding your experience with project management.

 A. Identify project goals through communication with customers
 B. Plan and execute project work, coordinating with all affected/associated parties.
 C. Report on project progression and completion.
 D. Resolve conflicts and problems related to planning and execution of projects.
 E. Monitor activities to assure that projects are implemented, and desired outcomes are achieved.
 F. Serve as project lead or coordinator of a team.
 G. None of the above.
12. Select the statement that best describes your experience performing work that regularly involves verifying the accuracy of information or the relevance of information to a problem.

 A. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
13. Select the statement that best describes your experience in conducting program reviews or assessments.

 A. I develop a series of annual multiyear or similar type of long-range work plans and schedules that require me to work with high-level program officials in setting overall goals and objectives for a national program.
 B. I develop a series of annual, multiyear or similar types of long-range work plans and schedules that require me to work with high-level program officials in setting overall goals and objectives for a regional, multi-state or equivalent program.
 C. I develop a series of annual, multiyear or similar types of long-range work plans and schedules that require me to work with high-level program officials in setting overall goals and objectives for a statewide or equivalent program.
 D. I develop a series of annual, multiyear or similar types of long-range work plans and schedules that require me to work with higher level program officials in setting overall goals and objectives for a field office or equivalent staff.
 E. I plan and schedule production-oriented work that requires me to adjust staffing levels or work procedures to accommodate changes, justify the purchase of new equipment, oversee development of technical data and statistics and decide methodologies for achieving work goals and objectives.
 F. I am the leader of a team working on a specific project requiring me to assess progress of work assignments for meeting goals and objectives
 G. None of the above.
14. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected