Position Title
Emergency Management Specialist
Agency
Federal Emergency Management Agency
Announcement Number
FEMA-EM-12765337-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 23, 2025 to Tuesday, August 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. The following questions will be used to determine your eligibility for consideration under this job opportunity announcement. Please select YES to all eligibility question(s) which apply.

If you're uncertain you meet an eligibility, we suggest answering yes. Your application will only be considered under the applicable eligibilities you have selected. If you respond NO to all eligibility questions below, your application will not be considered under this announcement.

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration for EACH selected eligibility. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will not be considered.
1. Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)

Are you a current or former FEMA Stafford Act employee eligible under the Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)?

Current and former FEMA Stafford Act employees who can document 64 or more hours of paid time, per pay period, with no breaks in service* for 78 or more consecutive pay periods since August 1, 2014, are eligible to be considered for this Merit Promotion Job Opportunity Announcement. (*Note: A "break in service" is defined as 3 or more days in non-pay status, except as allowed under 5 CFR § 315.201(b)(3)(ii) for special circumstances such as military deployment, etc.).

To verify eligibility, you must submit: 
"Notice of DRRA Eligibility" provided by OCHCO.  If you believe you're eligible, but have not received your notice, please reach out to the HR Specialist listed in the announcement.
Your FEMA SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your appointment in the excepted service under the Stafford Act.  We recommend attaching a SF-50 which indicates your highest grade and step.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Current FEMA Employee

Are you a current FEMA employee who currently holds OR has previously held a permanent (not time limited) position in the competitive service?

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your permanent competitive status.  Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions.  You may need to submit more than one SF-50.  Your SF-50 must reflect:
Block 24 - Tenure:  1 - Permanent (career) or 2 - Conditional: AND
Block 34 - Position Occupied:  1 - Competitive Service
If you previously held a career or career conditional appointment, you must provide your current SF-50 and your SF-50 which shows competitive status eligibility.
Please do not submit an award SF-50, as it might not indicate your grade level and step.  
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. FEMA Employees Only Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)
Are you a current or former FEMA employee who is considered displaced or surplus (you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction in Force)?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, your most recent performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Round Hill, VA
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
11
12
3. How did you hear about this Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) job opportunity?
 A. USAJOBS
 B. FEMA's Social Media (Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Online Job board (Indeed, Zip Recruiter, etc.)
 D. FEMA.gov Careers Website
 E. FEMA Virtual Hiring Event
 F. FEMA On-Site Hiring Event
 G. College/University/Alumni Organization
 H. FEMA Employee Referral
 I. Other
4. Are you a retiree receiving a federal annuity (either military or civilian)? Or have you accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years? (Select all that apply.)
 A. Yes, I'm receiving a military annuity.
 B. Yes, I'm receiving a civilian annuity.
 C. Yes, I've received a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
 D. No, I am not receiving a federal annuity and have not accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
5. Are you a current FEMA employee?
 A. I'm a current FEMA Local Hire Employee
 B. I'm a current FEMA Reservist Employee
 C. I'm a current FEMA CORE Employee
 D. I'm a current FEMA PFT Employee
 E. I'm a current FEMA Senior Executive Service Employee
 F. I'm not a current FEMA Employee
6. Are you currently serving, or have served within the last five years, as a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) employee in the Executive Branch?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Please provide the following information regarding your political appointment(s): 1. Official Title of Position; 2. Type of Appointment (i.e. Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career SES); 3. Name of Agency; 4. Date Position began; and 5. Date Position ended. (NOTE: If you have never held a political appointment, please enter N/A.)
8. Within the past five years, have you received a buyout or payment through the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment Authority (VSIP) when separating from a federal position?
 A. No
 B. Yes, and I understand candidates who are reemployed with the federal government within five years after receiving a buyout or payment under VSIP are required to repay the entire amount of the incentive prior to their onboarding date.
9. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?

Select "Not Applicable" if this question does not apply to you.
 A. Yes
 B. No, but I have an exemption
 C. I am a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, and have NOT registered with the Selective Service System and do NOT have an exemption.
 D. Not Applicable
2. All FEMA employees are subject to 24-hour on-call in the event of an emergency and all Federal employees may be subject to emergency deployment. In the event of an emergency deployment, travel requirements may be extensive in nature (weeks to months), with little advance notice, and may require relocation to emergency sites, some of which are quite austere. The length of deployment may last anywhere from days to months, depending upon the nature of the emergency or disaster.

Every FEMA employee is considered an emergency manager and each employee has regular and recurring emergency management responsibilities, although not every position requires routine deployment to disaster sites. Your emergency management duties may vary depending on the needs of the Agency, your particular skills, and certain personal circumstances. All positions may require irregular work hours, work at locations other than the official duty station, and may include duties other than those specified in the employee's official position description.

Are you able to meet this commitment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

In order to be hired for this position, applicants must undergo and successfully pass a background investigation. This may include a review of financial issues, such as delinquency, child support and/or tax obligations, as well as certain criminal offenses and illegal use of or possession of drugs.

Are you willing to undergo a background investigation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Your responses to the questions below will be used in the evaluation of your qualifications for this position. Your resume and application materials must support the level of experience and/or education you claim in this questionnaire, if after a complete review of your application package, a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications, you may be rated ineligible for this position.
1. Grade 11: Select the response that best describes your education and/or experience.
 A. I possess at least one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-9, as described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.
 C. I possess a combination of specialized experience, as described in the vacancy announcement, and related graduate level education, beyond the first two years of graduate level study, that when combined, meet the qualification requirements for this position. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.
 D. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.
2. Grade 12: Do you have one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the GS-11 level, as described in the vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Please indicate where and when you obtained each of the specialized experience requirements listed in the Qualifications section of this Job Opportunity Announcement. Include in your response: (1) the area of specialized experience; (2) the place of employment; and, (3) the specific dates of employment the experience was gained in MM/DD/YYYY - MM/DD/YYYY format. Your response must be supported by your resume.

Example: Experience in developing and delivering presentations and training; ABC Company; 10/01/2016 - 05/15/2018.
4. From the list below, select the statement(s) that describe(s) the directives or plans that you have interpreted for others.
 A. I have interpreted the Presidential Policy Directive (PPD) 40.
 B. I have interpreted the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) / Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Directive 16-1, Minimum Requirements for Continuity Communications Capabilities.
 C. I have interpreted the Federal Continuity Directive (FCD) 1.
 D. None of the above.
5. Select the response(s) that best describe(s) your experience concerning policy issues dealing with emergency disaster preparedness for intentional and/or unintentional crises or natural or man-made/technological disasters. Select all that apply.
 A. Serves as a project manager or advisor developing projects or programs related to community preparedness, training, exercises, evaluations or assessments.
 B. Leads team efforts to plan training or exercises with current guidance.
 C. Develops guidance, policies, plans or procedures for effective program implementation.
 D. Leads reviews of emergency planning and preparedness issues to produce recommendations.
 E. Lead reviews of emergency planning and preparedness issues to produce reports regarding efficiency and effectiveness.
 F. None of the above.
6. Which statement(s) describe your experience participating in or managing elements of the preparedness cycle for an emergency management organization? Select all that apply:
 A. Plans, policies, and/or procedures that support an organization’s strategic preparedness vision or goals.
 B. A documentation program that captures preparedness plans, policies, and/or procedures.
 C. A program for training on new or revised processes to improve preparedness performance.
 D. An evaluation program that assesses organizational performance during preparedness exercises and/or real-world events.
 E. An improvement planning or corrective action tracking system that captures goals for organizational improvement.
 F. A process for integrating corrective actions or organizational improvements into the development of future preparedness cycle plans, policies, and/or procedures.
 G. None of the above.
7. Select all responses that best describe the tasks you have performed as part of your job.
 A. Assisted in Emergency Management Program development.
 B. Maintained an all hazard/all threat emergency response plan.
 C. Developed Emergency Management mandatory standards.
 D. Provided policy guidance to establish an all-hazards risk management program.
 E. Assisted in emergency integration within a state/territory/district/region.
 F. Analyzed support operations contingency plans.
 G. None of the above.
8. Do you have experience maintaining a state of continuing readiness to make decisions about the magnitude of an emerging disaster.
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. In which of the below listed areas do you have experience conducting or participating in planning activities? (Select All That Apply)
 A. National security emergency management
 B. Multi-year strategies
 C. Continuity of Operations
 D. Continuity of Government
 E. Contingency Programs
 F. Relocation transportation programs
 G. None of the above
10. Select all responses that reflect your experience providing authoritative guidance and leadership on projects impacting national preparedness.
 A. I have developed policies for enhancing national preparedness through exercises that test readiness and capabilities.
 B. I have developed standard operating procedures for enhancing national preparedness through exercises that test readiness and capabilities.
 C. I have developed plans for enhancing national preparedness through exercises that test readiness and capabilities.
 D. I have served as a technical authority in the formulation of national program guidelines dealing with emergency preparedness.
 E. I have participated in studies for the improvement and enhancement of preparedness initiatives.
 F. None of the above.
11. Select all responses that best reflect your skill in program planning and management.
 A. Formulates and recommends plans to improve exercise program policies, practices and methods and organizational structure.
 B. Coordinates requirements among other components and partners in the formative stages of program initiation, project design, project implementation, and management of ongoing programs.
 C. Translates management goals and objectives into effective operations and monitors goals and program priorities to evaluate results.
 D. Provides authoritative guidance and leadership in the planning, development, conducting, and evaluation of emergency preparedness exercises.
 E. None of the above
12. From the following list, please identify the type(s) of contact(s) that you interact/communicate with on a daily basis.
 A. Senior management officials within your organization
 B. Officials in other agencies or organizations
 C. Professional individuals
 D. Peer groups
 E. Members of the public
 F. None of the above
13. Select the response(s) that reflect the items you have written professionally:
 A. Comprehensive reports or briefings.
 B. Standard Operating Procedures
 C. Document plans to improve effectiveness of programs.
 D. Technical summaries.
 E. Performance evaluations.
 F. Justification for awards.
 G. None of the above.
14. My problem-solving experience required that I ________. (select all that apply):
 A. Defend my findings orally.
 B. Discuss my findings with others prior to reaching a conclusion.
 C. Refer to oral guidance in finding a solution.
 D. Recommend several alternate solutions.
 E. List proposed solutions in order of preference.
 F. Point out a preferred solution while providing pros and cons.
 G. Present analytical information to senior management officials.
 H. None of the above.
15. Please select the response(s) that best reflect your experience producing clearly written reports, correspondence, and other materials for use by external stakeholders.
 A. I have experience communicating in written form to convey information concisely and clearly.
 B. I have prepared written reports documenting decisions and recommendations.
 C. I have prepared, reviewed, and edited technical and/or non-technical materials, identifying inadequacies in format, grammar, or construction in accordance with accepted standards.
 D. I have maintained effective working relationships with staff at all levels.
 E. None of the above.
16. From the list below, select the response(s) that describe(s) the types of documents you have written.
 A. I have written Continuity of Operations (COOP), Continuity of Government (COG), or reconstitution plans.
 B. I have written after-action reports.
 C. I have written standard operating procedures.
 D. I have written policy guidance.
 E. I have written analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives.
 F. I have written option papers/decision memos.
 G. I have written performance measures.
 H. I have written strategic plans.
 I. I have written operational planning documents.
 J. None of the above.
17. From the list below, select the statement(s) that accurately describe(s) your presentation/communications skills.
 A. I have effectively communicated technical information to audiences.
 B. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, or alternative viewpoints.
 C. I have interviewed employees or managers to acquire specific programmatic and/or technical information.
 D. I have conducted training sessions with varied audiences with different levels of comprehension.
 E. I have effectively communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis.
 F. None of the above.
18. From the list below, select the statement(s) that describe your experience providing customer service.
 A. I have coordinated/conducted meetings with managers and staff to ensure customers’ needs are met.
 B. I have established priorities to meet customer needs.
 C. I have evaluated and modified services to ensure quality customer service.
 D. I have directly investigated and resolved customer issues.
 E. I have provided customer service that was favorably recognized by a colleague, supervisor, or customer.
 F. None of the above
19. I have performed the following communication-related task(s) at work. (Select all that apply)
 A. Facilitated resolution of conflicting interests among parties.
 B. Intervened in situations where frequent changes/unexpected events arose that shifted priorities, timetables, or assignments.
 C. Provided direction, guidance, or instruction to lower-level/lower-grade professional staff.
 D. Resolved issues with contacts who initially were difficult, hostile, or distressed.
 E. None of above.
20. Choose the statement that best describes your experience providing customer support services.
 A. I have no experience providing customer support services.
 B. I have provided customer support services as directed by others.
 C. I have led planning activities that resulted in customer support programs implemented throughout the organization.
 D. I have developed and interpreted policies, procedures, and strategies governing delivery of all customer support services.
 E. None of the above
21. Select all responses from the list below that reflect the interpersonal skills you have used to foster cooperation, convey information, or resolve conflicts. (Select all that apply)
 A. Explained findings or recommendations to upper-level managers.
 B. Planned meetings with external individuals, industry groups, and/or organizations.
 C. Informed colleagues or senior management of events that may impact ongoing work.
 D. Collaborated with internal or external representatives to achieve mutual goals.
 E. None of the above.
22. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience supporting the achievement of team goals.
 A. I have volunteered to provide assistance beyond my job duties when help was requested.
 B. I have sought opportunities where I could contribute to achieving team goals.
 C. I have collaborated with team members to complete assignments.
 D. I have provided guidance to others to carry out assignments.
 E. I have provided team updates to customers, management, or executives.
 F. I have worked to minimize or address obstacles to accomplishing team goals.
 G. None of the above.
23. Please take this opportunity to review your question responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you understand this statement, have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected