Position Title
CUSTOMS LIQUIDATOR (DRAWBACK)
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OFO-DE-12790039-MHW Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 10, 2025 to Tuesday, September 16, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This question applies to current DHS employees. If you are not a current DHS employee, select No.  If you claim only this eligibility, and you are not a current DHS employee, you will not receive further consideration for this position.   

Are you a current Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who is currently employed with DHS in a permanent competitive service position? DHS includes the following agencies: CBP, ICE, FEMA, FLETC, USCIS, USCG, USSS, etc.). Please visit http://dhsconnect.dhs.gov for a comprehensive list of all DHS agencies. 

Note: To verify your eligibility as a current DHS employee you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting: Tenure: Career or career-conditional (1 or 2) and Position Occupied: Competitive service (1).

If you do not meet any of the categories above, you must answer no to this question.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency? If yes, confirm:
You occupy (or have been separated from) a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee with a confirmed Reemployment Priority List (RPL) registration that includes the following:
You have received notice that you will be displaced from the DHS, or
You have been separated by a reduction in force (RIF) from DHS within the last two years, or
You are fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year after compensation began, AND you have either separated from DHS due to a compensable injury or disability OR you have accepted a position at a lower grade or pay level in lieu of separation. 
 If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your eligibility, such as:
RPL registration documentation, AND
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
If recovered from a compensable injury, Department of Labor notification that injury compensation benefits will or have been ceased
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. San Francisco, CA
 B. Newark, NJ
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
11
12
3. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience and/or education to qualify for the GS-11 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes reviewing and processing drawback claims and supporting documentation; applying customs laws, regulations, and procedures, interpreting customs requirements or similar experience involving determinations of rates of duty; classifying of merchandise, entry requirements, manufacturing records, export documentation, and accounting & inventory records; reviewing and making decisions independently on drawback claims of more than average difficulty and complexity; and participating in public outreach programs, which involve presenting seminars and providing guidance to claimant.
 B. I have a Ph.D., an equivalent doctoral degree, or three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree in a qualifying field. I understand that I must submit transcripts with my application to validate my claim.
 C. I have a combination of successfully completed graduate education in an appropriate discipline and experience as described in A or B above, the total of which equals 100%. (To find more details in how to compute percentages in the announcement, look under the Qualification Statements Heading). I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 D. I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.
4. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-12 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes reviewing and deciding complex drawback claims and supporting documents to ensure compliance with all laws, regulations and trade agreements; performing compliance reviews of records to establish if goods meet eligibility requirements for drawback, and to verify the adequacy of a company's drawback system; reviewing and making determinations concerning claimants' request for drawback privileges including Accelerated Payment, Exporters Summary Procedure, Waiver of Prior Notice, and use of substitution under 1313(j)(2); this includes determining bond sufficiency; and participating in public outreach programs, which involve presenting seminars and providing detailed guidance to claimants.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
5. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by CBP. Individuals are required to have physically resided in the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law) for at least three of the last five years, before completing an application for CBP employment.

If you do not meet the residency requirement as stated above and you have been physically located in a foreign location for more than two of the last five years, you may request an exception to determine if you are eligible for a residency wavier by meeting one or more of the following conditions:
Working for the U.S. Government as a federal civilian or as a member of the military
A dependent who was authorized to accompany a federal civilian or member of the military who was working for the U.S. government
Participation in a study abroad program sponsored by a U.S. affiliated college or university
Working as a contractor, intern, consultant or volunteer supporting the U.S. government

Exceptions may be granted to applicants if they can provide complete state-side coverage information required to make a suitability determination. Examples of state-side coverage information include: the state-side address of the company headquarters where the applicant's personnel file is located, the state-side address of the Professor in charge of the applicant's "Study Abroad" program, and/or the state-side addresses of anyone who worked or studied with the applicant while overseas. If selected for a position, you must provide documentation to support a request for an exception.

Do you meet the residency requirement?
 A. Yes, for at least 3 of the last 5 years I physically resided within the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law).
 B. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am a current CBP employee.
 C. No, I do not meet this requirement and am therefore requesting an exception under one of the criteria listed above. I understand that if selected for this position, I will be required to provide supporting documentation for the period of time I have spent outside of the United States.
 D. No, I do not meet this requirement and am not requesting an exception. I understand that since I do not meet CBP’s residency requirement, I cannot be considered for a position with CBP at this time.
7. Are you receiving a civilian retirement annuity from OPM based on retiring from the Federal government? If you select yes and you are selected for this position, your salary will be off-set by the amount of your civilian retirement annuity.

To verify, you must submit a copy of your retirement SF-50 with your application package. It is also recommended to submit a copy of your most recent annuity statement.

Note, this does not apply to military retirement and annuity pay.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
9. Are you a current or former Federal employee? If yes, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your SF-50(s) (Notification of Personnel Action) to support your experience. Also, ensure that your resume contains a detailed description of your federal work experience, including the dates you performed those duties, your hours worked per week, job title, as well as series, grade level(s), and salary (if applicable).
 A. Yes
 B. No
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
10. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
11. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
12. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
13. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
14. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
1. Indicate the extent to which you have reviewed drawback claims to ensure compliance with laws and regulations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have reviewed drawback claims to ensure presence of necessary signatures and certifications.
 C. I have experience reviewing drawback claims for supporting documentation necessary to ensure compliance with laws and regulations.
 D. I have been the primary person responsible ensuring drawback claims are in compliance with laws, regulations, and trade agreements.
2. Indicate the extent to which you have verified timely and complete submission of drawback claims.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have followed a checklist to ensure completeness of drawback claims and ensured that they were dealt with by the set deadline.
 C. I have verified necessary information on drawback claims to ensure completeness, and I have ensured that the claims were submitted in a timely manner.
 D. I have reviewed the work of others to verify necessary signatures and certifications on drawback claims to ensure completeness, and I have ensured that the claims were submitted in a timely manner.
3. Indicate the extent of your experience in interpreting and applying a wide range of Customs Laws.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have selected and applied the proper Customs laws based on direct instruction from my supervisor.
 C. I have independently selected and applied the proper Customs laws to routine situations to make determinations on compliance.
 D. I have independently selected, interpreted, and applied the proper Customs laws to specific situations to make determinations on compliance.
 E. I have trained others on selecting, interpreting, and applying the proper Customs laws to specific situations to make determinations on compliance.
4. Select the choice that best describes your knowledge of Customs laws, regulations, policies, and procedures related to the import of merchandise.

 A. I have no knowledge of Customs laws, regulations, policies, and procedures related to the import and export of merchandise.
 B. I have limited, basic knowledge of Customs laws, regulations, policies, and procedures regarding the import and export of merchandise.
 C. I have a working knowledge of Customs laws, regulations, policies, and procedures and have made recommendations to ensure use of imported goods complies with applicable laws and regulations.
 D. I have extensive knowledge of Customs laws, regulations, and policies and I have implemented procedure changes to ensure use of imported goods complies with applicable laws and regulations.
5. Indicate the extent of your experience analyzing and evaluating manufacturers' contract statements and documentation when reviewing claims for drawback eligibility and payment.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. Under the close guidance of a supervisor or other more senior individual, I have analyzed manufacturers' contract statements and documentation for drawback eligibility and payment.
 C. I have independently analyzed and evaluated manufacturers' contract statements and documentation for drawback eligibility and payment.
 D. I have overseen the analysis and evaluation of manufacturers' contract statements and documentation in the review of claims for drawback eligibility and payment.
6. Indicate the extent to which you have traced imported merchandise through to exportation.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in tracing imported merchandise through to exportation to ensure completeness of documentation.
 C. I have traced imported merchandise through to exportation to ensure completeness of documentation with the guidance of other more senior individuals.
 D. I have independently traced imported merchandise through to exportation to ensure completeness of documentation and determined the proper amount of drawback to be paid.
 E. I have been the primary person responsible for tracing imported merchandise through to exportation to ensure completeness of documentation and determined the proper amount of drawback to be paid.
7. Indicate the extent of your experience reviewing records and contracts for manufacturing claims to ensure that authorized manufacturing techniques are properly reflected.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in reviewing records and contracts for manufacturing claims.
 C. I have reviewed records and contracts for manufacturing claims to ensure that authorized manufacturing techniques are properly reflected with the guidance of other more senior individuals.
 D. I have independently reviewed the manufacturing claimant’s inventory or other records and the contract statement to ensure that authorized manufacturing techniques are completely and properly reflected.
 E. I have been the primary person responsible for reviewing the manufacturing claimant’s inventory or other records and the contract statement to ensure that authorized manufacturing techniques are completely and properly reflected.
8. Indicate the extent of your experience in gathering and evaluating data relevant to drawback claims.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have collected drawback claim documents and summarized them for use by other decision makers.
 C. I have gathered and evaluated drawback claim data and made recommendations for potential solutions.
 D. I have gathered and evaluated drawback claim data and made decisions as to the appropriate course of action.
9. Indicate the extent of your experience in analyzing an organization's records to determine drawback entitlement.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have collected an organization's records documents and summarized them for use by other decision makers.
 C. I have analyzed an organization's records and drafted drawback entitlement with the guidance of other more senior individuals.
 D. I have independently analyzed an organization's records and determined the drawback entitlement.
10. Select the choice that best describes your knowledge of basic accounting principles.

 A. I have no knowledge of basic accounting principles.
 B. I have limited, fundamental knowledge of basic accounting principles, but I have not applied this knowledge in a work setting.
 C. I have a working knowledge of basic accounting principles.
 D. I have extensive knowledge of basic accounting principles.
11. Select the choice that best describes your knowledge of Automated Commercial Environment modules (e.g., cargo, release, entry summary, bonds, drawback, liquidation, protest, quota).

 A. I have no knowledge of Automated Commercial Environment modules.
 B. I have limited, basic knowledge of Automated Commercial Environment modules (e.g., cargo, release, entry summary, bonds, drawback, liquidation, protest, quota).
 C. I have a working knowledge of Automated Commercial Environment modules (e.g., cargo, release, entry summary, bonds, drawback, liquidation, protest, quota).
 D. I have extensive knowledge of Automated Commercial Environment modules (e.g., cargo, release, entry summary, bonds, drawback, liquidation, protest, quota).
12. Indicate the extent of your experience gathering information, determining its importance, and communicating it by a variety of methods.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in researching key information and preparing various forms of communications.
 C. I have independently identified the need for information, researched relevant topics, and developed various forms of communications.
 D. I have experience managing multiple information requests or projects, developing a variety of complex forms of communications, and delivering them to all levels of leadership throughout an organization.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected