Position Title
Health Technician (Pedorthist)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12806603-25-JF Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 1, 2025 to Tuesday, October 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Health Technician (Pedorthist) position with our San Juan VA Medical Center. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire. Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the qualification requirements for this position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement. Full performance level for this position is GS-07.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS FOR Health Technician (Pedorthist). The following section is used to determine if you meet the basic requirements for this vacancy. Please choose the most appropriate answer in response to the following questions.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you US Citizen?

 Yes
 No


2.
English Language Proficiency. Health Technician (Pedorthist) candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with 38 U.S.C. ? 7403(f).
Are you proficient in spoken and written English?

 Yes
 No


3.
Credential. Candidate must possess one of the below credentials.
Candidates must be board certified in pedorthics by the American Board for Certification in Orthotics, Prosthetics and Pedorthics (ABC).
OR,
Credentialed in pedorthics by the Board of Certification/Accreditation (BOC).-Documentation Submitted
OR,
Exception for Non-Credentialed Health Aid (Pedorthist).
Non-credentialed individuals who have successfully completed a Board for Certification in Pedorthics (BCP), Commission on Accreditation of Pedorthic Education (CAPE), National Commission on Orthotic and Prosthetic Education (NCOPE), Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs (CAAHEP) or American Board for Certification of Orthotics, Prosthetics and Pedorthics (ABC) approved pedorthic certificate program (see Pedorthist Programs) and otherwise meet ABC's eligibility requirements for certification (see Pedorthist Candidate Guide) may be given a temporary appointment as a graduate Health Aid (Pedorthist) under the authority of 38 U.S.C. ? 7405(c)(2)(B).
Non-credentialed individuals shall only provide care under the clinical oversight of a credentialed pedorthist, orthotist, or orthotist/prosthetist at or above the full performance level.
Non-credentialed individuals may only be appointed at the entry level and may not be promoted/converted until certification is obtained.
Temporary appointments of non-credentialed Health Aid (Pedorthist) may not be extended beyond two years or converted to a new temporary appointment.

Please select one of the below responses that best describes how you meet this requirement.
 I am board certified in pedorthics by the American Board for Certification in Orthotics, Prosthetics and Pedorthics (ABC).
 I am credentialed in pedorthics by the Board of Certification/Accreditation (BOC).
 I meet the exception for non-credentialed Health Aid (Pedorthist).
 I do not meet either of the requirements listed above.


Failure to Obtain Certification. In all cases, Health Aid (Pedorthist) must actively pursue meeting requirements for certification starting from the date of their appointment. At the time of appointment, the supervisor will provide the Health Aid (Pedorthist) with the written requirements for certification, including the time by which the certification must be obtained and the consequences for not becoming certified by the deadline. Failure to obtain certification during this time period may result in termination of employment.


Loss of Credential. Management officials, in collaboration with HR Office staff must immediately relieve employees, who fail to maintain the required certification, of the duties and responsibilities associated with this occupation, which may also result in separation from employment.


GRADE LEVEL REQUIREMENTS FOR Health Technician (Pedorthist). The following is used to determine if you meet the grade requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be demonstrated in your resume. Please be as detailed as possible in your resume and ensure you demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or knowledge, skills and abilities required for the position. No assumptions will be made


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
GS-3: Experience: Non-Beyond Basic Requirements. Employees at this grade level serve in a Health Aid (Pedorthist) entry level developmental position and work under the clinical oversight and direction of a credentialed pedorthist, orthotist or certified prosthetist orthotist (CPO). They receive entry level assignments designed to build upon the base knowledge, skills and abilities. Do you possess this experience?

 Yes
 No


5.
GS-4: Experience: Six months of experience demonstrating knowledge, skills and abilities associated with pedorthic practice equivalent to the next lower grade. s. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs: (a) Knowledge of patient related psychology, for example age-related competency, patient, and caregiver stressors. (b) Knowledge of foundational sciences related to development of pedorthic treatment, for example anatomy, biomechanics, and pathology. (c) Knowledge of materials science commonly used in fabrication, for example adhesives, plastics, composites, metals, and leather. (d) Knowledge of regulations and procedures to ensure patient privacy. (e) Ability to assign Healthcare Procedure Coding System (HCPCS) coding to pedorthic devices. Do you possess this experience?

 Yes
 No


6.
GS-5: Experience: One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs: (a) Skill in conducting patient assessments. (b) Skill in developing simple pedorthic devices (includes assessment, measurement, selection, and fitting). (c) Ability to consult with providers and allied health colleagues regarding treatment. (d) Ability to assess device to ensure structural soundness and compliance with prescription and fit. Do you possess this experience?

 Yes
 No


7.
GS-6: Experience. One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs: (a) Skill in developing a follow up treatment plan for complex pedorthic device types. (b) Ability to process paperwork for pedorthic devices being produced and fitted by vendor. (c) Ability to place administrative orders with procurement staff for treatment modalities. (d) Ability to assess device types for structural soundness and meeting the specifications of the prescription. (e) Ability to process consults/orders. Do you possess this experience?

 Yes
 No


8.
GS-7 : Experience One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-06). Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Skill in designing advanced pedorthic devices.
Skill in assessing device types for structural soundness and meeting the specifications of the prescription.
Skill in written communication.
Skill in oral communication.
Skill in fabrication of all pedorthic device types.
Skill in designing innovative pedorthic devices to include new and emerging technology.

Can you demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities at the GS-07 grade level described above?

 Yes
 No


9.
Verification Statement - Select the appropriate answer to the statement below. Failure to provide an answer will result in your application not being considered for this position.

I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I understand the information provided above and certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify this information and do not wish to be considered for this position.


REMINDER - You must provide a complete application package which includes: Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title and Grade Level (for Federal positions) Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and knowledge, skills and abilities required for the position) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Veteran's Preference Documentation - In order to receive appropriate preference consideration, you must submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for veteran's preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference must also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran's Preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage). Applicants claiming spousal veterans preference must provide a copy of marriage certificate, along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form Proof of current certification, licensure or registration (if applicable)


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙