Position Title
Medical Records Administrator
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-12756202-25-SR Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 2, 2025 to Monday, July 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Basic Requirement - Experience and Education.

Do you have one of the following:

Education or Experience:
Experience. Three years of [creditable] experience in the field of medical records that included the preparation, maintenance, and management of [health] records and health information systems [demonstrating a knowledge of medical terminology,] medical records [procedures, medical coding, or medical, administrative, and legal requirements of health care delivery] systems.
OR,
Education. [Successful completion of a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university [recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, with a major field of study in health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 24 semester hours in health information management or health information technology.]
OR,
Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of [creditable] experience and education that equal 100 percent may be used to meet basic requirements. [For example, two years above high school from an accredited college or university, with 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management, plus one year and six months of creditable experience that included the preparation, maintenance, and management of health records and health information systems, meets an equivalent combination.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Basic Requirement - Certification.

Do you possess the following:
Coding Certification through AHIMA or AAPC. NOTE. See paragraph 2a above for a detailed definition of Coding Certification.
OR,
HIM Certification through AHIMA. NOTE. See paragraph 2d above for a detailed definition of HIM Certification.
OR,
Health Data Analyst Certification through AHIMA. NOTE. See paragraph 2c above for a detailed definition of Health Data Analyst 4 Certification. NOTE. HIMs Certification is required for all positions above the full performance level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Basic Requirement - Physical Requirements.

Are you physically, mentally, and emotionally fit to perform the duties of a Medical Records Administration?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Basic Requirement - English Language Proficiency.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Specialized Experience - GS-13 Medical Records Administrator

Do you have the following:
Experience. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level that demonstrates the KSAs described at that level.
AND
Certification. Employees at this level must have a HIM Certification. (Supporting documentation must be provided)
NOTE. See paragraph 2d of this appendix for detailed definitions of HIM Certification.
AND
The candidate must demonstrate the following professional KSAs as well as the supervisory KSA (*) if applicable:
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities
Ability to maintain effectiveness and adapt proficiently to changes in the environment, work structure, processes, tasks, or requirements.
Skill in developing new policies and procedures for administering health information management programs to improve program effectiveness and/orapply newly developed programs or theories to problems that require new approaches.
Knowledge of the legal, ethical, and professional standards, as they apply to health information management.
Ability to provide sound, technical guidance to the professional staff and executive leadership regarding major programs, legal, or procedural changes related to health information management.
Skill in conducting studies, analyzing data, and presenting results.
Skill in management/administration, which includes program planning, coordination, interpretation, consultation, negotiation, problem solving, and monitoring.
Ability to provide the full range of supervisory duties to include assignment of work; completing performance evaluations; selection of staff; and recommendation for awards, advancements, and disciplinary actions, when appropriate.
Assignments. This assignment serves as the MRA Veterans Integrated Service Networks (VISN) HIM with responsibility for the management and direction of the health information management program. VISN medical record administrators serve at the Network level and have health information management oversight responsibilities for the Network. This position may be supervisory or non-supervisory. The MRA VISN HIM is responsible for the programmatic oversight of HIM programs and assures that the VISN has a state-of-the-art HIM program that meets all accreditation, regulatory, and VA requirements, in addition to meeting the needs of executive management. The MRA VISN HIM coordinates overall strategy for HIM services across the multi-facility integrated healthcare system. They implement and support all VISN HIM initiatives and activities and provide operational support to HIM departments at the facility level. The MRA VISN HIM develops, implements, and provides oversight to facility HIM leadership in the management of accuracy and timeliness of work, work processes, and overall workload responsibilities. This position is responsible for all aspects of the HIM program, which includes developing and/or acquiring shared resources, such as contracts, staff, and education and training opportunities.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected