Position Title
HUMAN RESOURCES SPECIALIST (MILITARY) T32
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
AZ-12768236-SW-25-083T Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 21, 2025 to Tuesday, August 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. US Citizens.  Are you a US Citizen?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current member of the Arizona Air National Guard?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you posses the rank/grade of SrA/E-4 to TSgt/E-6?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you posses the ASFC of 3F051?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Do you possess a Secret Security Clearance?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Must possess at least 1-year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade. Specialized experience is experience that prepared the applicant to perform the duties of the position. The applicant's educational-degree study program or military or civilian academic courses may substitute for some specialized experience. An applicant must demonstrate the specialized experience competencies (skills, knowledge, abilities and behaviors) to qualify for a position identified by its position grade and career level. Specialized experience factors encompass human resources program's business competencies, familiarity with the subject matter or processes used in human resources programs associated with DoD, U.S. Army, or U.S. Air Force.

DUTIES: 

Program Management: Plans, organizes, and oversees the full complement of activities within the Group Commander's Support Staff (CSS). Oversees Group programs to facilitate the Group and squadron commander's vision. Keeps abreast of and briefs the Group and squadron senior Commander(s) regarding assigned program status; actual or potential problems and changes that could possibly affect the operation of the group and subordinate units. Recommends redirection of assets if necessary to achieve improved overall mission effectiveness. Oversees workflow and tasking to ensure personnel and administrative processes are completed as required. Reviews organization mission, functions, and manning requirements. Identifies requirements and initiates requests for additional resources including personnel, overtime, equipment, supplies, and space to ensure success in meeting goals and objectives. Provides advice to senior staff on significant issues and problems related to work accomplishment. Establishes metrics and analysis systems to ensure actions are timely processed, measured, and reviewed at critical points. Performs self-inspection and presents detailed and comprehensive report with any corrective action taken to supervisor. Follows-up to ensure complete and quality resolution of discrepancies. Responsible for the implementation of internal policies, procedures and execution governing administration of CSS programs. Responsible for coordination with their respective Force Support Squadron on all matters related to Commander Support Staff (CSS) manning, training, and personnel related issues. Coordinates with other organization managers and customers as appropriate.

Manages a myriad of Unit Commander's programs to include; Drug Demand Reduction Program, Urinalysis, Voting Assistance, promotions and demotions, evaluations, separations, retirements, benefits, entitlements, retention, classification, awards, decorations, retraining, casualty, Defense Travel System (DTS), Government Purchase Card Program, Government Travel Card Program, Air Force Fitness Program, Unit Security Program, Unit Self-Inspection Program, Unit File Maintenance, Unit Health Monitor, and personnel readiness programs. Determines program eligibility, requirements and provides customers resources. Counsels personnel on program eligibility, requirements, resources, opportunities, benefits, and entitlements that affect customer's career.Responsible for program execution and tracking metrics on force management such as; assignment changes, commander's adverse action program, sanctuary, e-records management, selective reenlistment, and bonus programs. Utilizes MilPDS, Virtual Personnel Center (vPC) records, RAW, myPers and databases; and completes military personnel status changes or updates. Tracks and reports unit health medical readiness and provides statistics to senior leadership for readiness reporting. Reviews products from Military Personnel Section, validates status and briefs members. Works with commanders and personnel to resolve discrepancies and ensures the accuracy of data. Routinely crosschecks data between military personnel data system and source documents for record accuracy. Creates, interprets, and audit management assessment products and transaction registers and identifies mismatches. Prepares and processes Article 15s, letters of reprimand, investigation reports, unfavorable information files, involuntary demotions, and separation actions. Tracks and updates duty status changes, and accountable for duty status reporting to include leave, temporary duty, hospitalization, sick in quarters and casualty reporting. Validates leave web program and suspense systems for personnel actions and correspondence. Manages unit personnel roster (UMPR). Reviews, reconciles and accomplishes corrective action on Unit Manpower Document (UMD). Maintains unit's fitness program, schedules, tracks and reports unit fitness readiness. Facilitates the unit reenlistment/extension program and prepares retention package for staffing through Force Support Squadron. Manages Unit Orders program using the Air Force Reserve Order Writing System (AROWS) and Manpower MPA Man-day Management System (M4S). Advises commanders and provides reports and statistics on personnel readiness. Prepares annual/special training orders and deployment orders. Receives order request, verifies eligibility, need for waiver, sanctuary, and/or deployment availability code. Creates order, provides member copy, and updates participation roster. Performs personnel actions by conducting in/out processing for home-station and deployed personnel, and maintains accountability. Reconciles data analysis products and ensures data accuracy of both deployed and home-station personnel.

Office Administration: Prepares the preparation and review of outgoing correspondence for conformance with Air Force instructions, policies, format, and assembly; for accuracy of spelling, punctuation, form, grammar; and for completeness of reports and correspondence. Reviews incoming correspondence to determine the appropriate action required and priority; referring to appropriate individual or office for response. Personally prepares response to routine inquiries; consolidates information for reports; interprets reporting requirements and implementing instructions; arranges with subordinate offices to submit response; and follows-up to meet suspense or deadline. Compiles and evaluates information for inclusion in a variety of documents and reports. Provides guidance and technical assistance to group staff regarding publications and forms preparation and processing procedures, information privacy, confidentiality, security, disclosure, and sharing of information. Assists with military personnel actions, coordinating with outside agencies and providing assistance to unit personnel and supervisors. Provides executive support to General Officers and Command Staff, to include travel arrangements, accompanying briefings, security arrangements, itinerary, travel orders and vouchers.

Technical Administration: Integrates Information Technology into Group Staff operations. Technical expert in Microsoft Office applications, Adobe Acrobat, Electronic Record Management, and other Air Force information systems to create, copy, edit, and print a variety of standardized documents. Prepares orders for a variety of actions (e.g., special tour, annual tour, school tour, and civilian orders) using the order writing system. Provides training and gives guidance in the preparation and publication of orders. Administers the Defense Travel System (DTS); provides training, approves e-finance process, creates profiles and pulls reports. Communicates needs for collaboration tools with Knowledge Management Center to automate processes. Designs and maintains collaborative tools; including but not limited to the Air Force Portal, SharePoint, websites and dashboards. Serves as a Unit Property Custodian. Will implement and enforce all Air Force cybersecurity policies and procedures using the guidance within AFI 33-200 instruction and applicable specialized (COMSEC, COMPUSEC, TEMPEST etc.) cybersecurity publications as unit Cybersecurity Liaison (CL). Develops methods for automating functions in the most efficient and effective manner. Uses MilPDS data to abstract, compile, and prepare a variety of personnel and historical reports using a variety of formats (e.g., statistical and narrative) for senior management decision making.

Unit Training Program. Assists the Unit Training Manager in managing the unit training program and all subsequent listed duties within this section. Serves as focal point for all Career Development Course (CDC) waivers. Orders and issues CDCs and processes CDC waivers. Tracks progression, and schedules End of Course (EOC) exams. Documents and reports CDC failures to Force Development Flight. Prepares AF IMT 2096, Classification/On-the-Job Training Action, affecting AFSC Special Experience Identified (SEI), or Upgrade Training (UGT) status. Ensures eligibility and completion of training requirements. Schedules, conducts and documents (memorandum for record) work center visits and follows up on corrective action. Briefs the Group Commander at least quarterly on the Status of Training (SOT). Processes classification actions for unsatisfactory progress in upgrade/qualification training. Documents Commander Recommendations. Prepares and conducts training review board and maintenance training review board. Responsible for overall management of OJT program for the Group and oversight of subordinate unit's OJT program utilizing AFTR, TBA and/or PEX. Conducts Staff Assistance Visits (SAV) and identifies root cause of deficiencies and recommends corrective actions for process improvements. Administers Education, Training and Distance Learning Programs. Manages Ancillary Training in Advanced Distributed Learning Service (ADLS). Forecasts and schedules ancillary training in ADLS, and reports ADLS training statistic to Base Education and Training Office (BETO). Submits a formal school forecast. Researches source for status and content and verifies individual/course meets requirements. Contacts Non-air Force sources to satisfy requirements. Coordinates formal training. Solicits training requirement, receives, processes and forwards formal training Report on Individual Personnel (RIPs) to appropriate personnel. Receives and forwards formal training RIPs to appropriate agency and clears suspense. Processes formal school training requests; reviews requirement/eligibility, processes requests, requests skill level, medical and other waivers, processes cancellations/changes and substitutions. Tracks and coordinates field evaluation of formal training or occupational measurement surveys. Develops methods to track surveys, provides background information to unit personnel, tracks survey, and verifies survey completion. Prepares training budget. Identifies training requirement, develops forecast, and training requirement spend plan. Retrieves or requests recurring report or data report. Assists with developing work center training folder. Develops master task listing and master training plan. Provides training and assistance with the Air Reserve Component Network (ARCNet). Reviews newly assigned airmen qualification and training status actions.

Serves as the organizational point of contact and liaison with the Force Support Squadron (FSS). Assists in administering and monitoring personnel resource requirements. Compiles personnel transactions according to the specific, established requirements of each case. Independently determines the steps and procedures necessary to perform the full range of clerical processing functions associated with personnel liaison assignments. Serves as central point of contact to provide authoritative explanations of personnel-related requirements, instructions, and procedures and to assist in resolving operational problems involving all functional areas of personnel. Serves as central point of contact to provide authoritative explanations of personnel-related requirements, instructions, and procedures and to assist in resolving operational problems involving all functional areas of personnel. Serves as an effective relay between the personnel office and management as needed. Refers questions on difficult or complex issues to appropriate servicing specialist. Effectively ensures the accuracy and quality control of all documentation affecting manpower and personnel transactions. Receives and reviews all new and changed data relating to military personnel. Provides guidance and training to subordinate offices on applicable time keeping programs and processes. Assists with Air Force Personnel Accountability and Assessment System (AFPAAS). Submits request for copy of member records to FSS and assists member with self-service application to perform duty history or service date changes/corrections. First level liaison with base agencies such as Finance and Communications.

Performs other duties as assigned.

Do you meet the above qualification standard?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. The individual selected will receive an Indefinite Appointment and may be converted to permanent based on availability of funds or position no longer being encumbered.  

Please select the appropriate response for consideration.

 A. I have read and understand the terms as stated above and would like to be considered for the position.
 B. I have read and understand the terms as stated above and would not like to be considered for the position.
Assessment 1
Respond to all statements and questions. These statements and questions allow applicants to highlight their Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs) which are applicable to the position for which you are applying. If it is necessary to limit the number of applicants for a position, these KSAs will be used to determine the "Best Qualified".  For each KSA please identify below in the space provided how you have either demonstrated the KSA or have shown the potential to acquire them. Give specific examples describing related project, details, work assignments, outside activities, and the time frames involved in each. If you do not answer these statements and questions an accurate evaluation of your qualifications may not be possible. This may result in your application not being certified.

1. Knowledge of military human resources policies, rules, guidelines, instructions, etc. to understand the assigned program(s) and converse effectively with functional managers, advise commanders, customers, lower graded personnel, or lower echelons.
2. Ability to plan, organize work, administer, communicate effectively (both orally and in writing), meet deadlines, gather, analyze data/products, and summarize facts in order to determine adequacy and/or deficiencies of assigned programs.
3. Knowledge of automated systems, personal computers, and software employed in the assigned program area to utilize the systems in developing reports, correspondence and to extract data.
4. Knowledge and skill in application of analytical and evaluative techniques to identify, consider, and resolve issues or problems peculiar to the assigned program area.
5. Knowledge of the mission and the unit is essential in order to provide required support consistent with mission objectives and to coordinate with managers, supervisors, members, customers, dependents, and other offices on human resources issues.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
6. At least 1-year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade. Specialized experience is experience that prepared the applicant to perform the duties of the position. The applicant's educational-degree study program or military or civilian academic courses may substitute for some specialized experience. An applicant must demonstrate the specialized experience competencies (skills, knowledge, abilities and behaviors) to qualify for a position identified by its position grade and career level. Specialized experience factors encompass human resources program's business competencies, familiarity with the subject matter or processes used in human resources programs associated with DoD, U.S. Army, or U.S. Air Force.

DUTIES (compacted): 

Plans, organizes, and oversees the full complement of activities within the Group Commander's Support Staff (CSS). Oversees Group programs to facilitate the Group and squadron commander's vision. Keeps abreast of and briefs the Group and squadron senior Commander(s) regarding assigned program status; actual or potential problems and changes that could possibly affect the operation of the group and subordinate units. Recommends redirection of assets if necessary to achieve improved overall mission effectiveness. Oversees workflow and tasking to ensure personnel and administrative processes are completed as required. Reviews organization mission, functions, and manning requirements. Identifies requirements and initiates requests for additional resources including personnel, overtime, equipment, supplies, and space to ensure success in meeting goals and objectives. Provides advice to senior staff on significant issues and problems related to work accomplishment.  Performs self-inspection and presents detailed and comprehensive report with any corrective action taken to supervisor. Responsible for the implementation of internal policies, procedures and execution governing administration of CSS programs.

Manages a myriad of Unit Commander's programs to include; Drug Demand Reduction Program, Urinalysis, Voting Assistance, promotions and demotions, evaluations, separations, retirements, benefits, entitlements, retention, classification, awards, decorations, retraining, casualty, Defense Travel System (DTS), Government Purchase Card Program, Government Travel Card Program, Air Force Fitness Program, Unit Security Program, Unit Self-Inspection Program, Unit File Maintenance, Unit Health Monitor, and personnel readiness programs. Responsible for program execution and tracking metrics on force management such as; assignment changes, commander's adverse action program, sanctuary, e-records management, selective reenlistment, and bonus programs. Reviews products from Military Personnel Section, validates status and briefs members. Works with commanders and personnel to resolve discrepancies and ensures the accuracy of data. Routinely crosschecks data between military personnel data system and source documents for record accuracy. Creates, interprets, and audit management assessment products and transaction registers and identifies mismatches. Validates leave web program and suspense systems for personnel actions and correspondence. Manages unit personnel roster (UMPR). Reviews, reconciles and accomplishes corrective action on Unit Manpower Document (UMD). Facilitates the unit reenlistment/extension program and prepares retention package for staffing through Force Support Squadron. Manages Unit Orders program using the Air Force Reserve Order Writing System (AROWS) and Manpower MPA Man-day Management System (M4S). Advises commanders and provides reports and statistics on personnel readiness. Prepares annual/special training orders and deployment orders. Receives order request, verifies eligibility, need for waiver, sanctuary, and/or deployment availability code. Creates order, provides member copy, and updates participation roster. Performs personnel actions by conducting in/out processing for home-station and deployed personnel, and maintains accountability. 

Prepares the preparation and review of outgoing correspondence for conformance with Air Force instructions, policies, format, and assembly; for accuracy of spelling, punctuation, form, grammar; and for completeness of reports and correspondence. Reviews incoming correspondence to determine the appropriate action required and priority; referring to appropriate individual or office for response. Personally prepares response to routine inquiries; consolidates information for reports; interprets reporting requirements and implementing instructions; arranges with subordinate offices to submit response; and follows-up to meet suspense or deadline. Compiles and evaluates information for inclusion in a variety of documents and reports. Provides guidance and technical assistance to group staff regarding publications and forms preparation and processing procedures, information privacy, confidentiality, security, disclosure, and sharing of information. Assists with military personnel actions, coordinating with outside agencies and providing assistance to unit personnel and supervisors.

Integrates Information Technology into Group Staff operations. Technical expert in Microsoft Office applications, Adobe Acrobat, Electronic Record Management, and other Air Force information systems to create, copy, edit, and print a variety of standardized documents. Provides training and gives guidance in the preparation and publication of orders. Administers the Defense Travel System (DTS); provides training, approves e-finance process, creates profiles and pulls reports. Communicates needs for collaboration tools with Knowledge Management Center to automate processes. Designs and maintains collaborative tools; including but not limited to the Air Force Portal, SharePoint, websites and dashboards. Serves as a Unit Property Custodian. Will implement and enforce all Air Force cybersecurity policies and procedures using the guidance within AFI 33-200 instruction and applicable specialized (COMSEC, COMPUSEC, TEMPEST etc.) cybersecurity publications as unit Cybersecurity Liaison (CL). Develops methods for automating functions in the most efficient and effective manner.

Assists the Unit Training Manager in managing the unit training program and all subsequent listed duties within this section. Serves as focal point for all Career Development Course (CDC) waivers. Orders and issues CDCs and processes CDC waivers. Tracks progression, and schedules End of Course (EOC) exams. Documents and reports CDC failures to Force Development Flight. Prepares AF IMT 2096, Classification/On-the-Job Training Action, affecting AFSC Special Experience Identified (SEI), or Upgrade Training (UGT) status. Ensures eligibility and completion of training requirements. Schedules, conducts and documents (memorandum for record) work center visits and follows up on corrective action. Briefs the Group Commander at least quarterly on the Status of Training (SOT). Processes classification actions for unsatisfactory progress in upgrade/qualification training. Documents Commander Recommendations. Prepares and conducts training review board and maintenance training review board. Responsible for overall management of OJT program for the Group and oversight of subordinate unit's OJT program utilizing AFTR, TBA and/or PEX. Conducts Staff Assistance Visits (SAV) and identifies root cause of deficiencies and recommends corrective actions for process improvements. Administers Education, Training and Distance Learning Programs. Manages Ancillary Training in Advanced Distributed Learning Service (ADLS). Forecasts and schedules ancillary training in ADLS, and reports ADLS training statistic to Base Education and Training Office (BETO). Solicits training requirement, receives, processes and forwards formal training Report on Individual Personnel (RIPs) to appropriate personnel. Processes formal school training requests; reviews requirement/eligibility, processes requests, requests skill level, medical and other waivers, processes cancellations/changes and substitutions. Tracks and coordinates field evaluation of formal training or occupational measurement surveys. Develops methods to track surveys, provides background information to unit personnel, tracks survey, and verifies survey completion. Prepares training budget. Retrieves or requests recurring report or data report. 

Serves as the organizational point of contact and liaison with the Force Support Squadron (FSS). Assists in administering and monitoring personnel resource requirements. Compiles personnel transactions according to the specific, established requirements of each case. Independently determines the steps and procedures necessary to perform the full range of clerical processing functions associated with personnel liaison assignments. Serves as central point of contact to provide authoritative explanations of personnel-related requirements, instructions, and procedures and to assist in resolving operational problems involving all functional areas of personnel. Serves as central point of contact to provide authoritative explanations of personnel-related requirements, instructions, and procedures and to assist in resolving operational problems involving all functional areas of personnel. Serves as an effective relay between the personnel office and management as needed. Refers questions on difficult or complex issues to appropriate servicing specialist. Effectively ensures the accuracy and quality control of all documentation affecting manpower and personnel transactions. Receives and reviews all new and changed data relating to military personnel. Provides guidance and training to subordinate offices on applicable time keeping programs and processes. 

Performs other duties as assigned.

Do you meet the above qualification standard?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Do you certify that all of your responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate; and do you accept that if your supporting documentation does not support one or more of your responses to the questionnaire that your application may be rated lower or you may be removed from further consideration?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected