Position Title
Kinesiotherapist (Clinical Specialist)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSR-12769043-25-AL Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 22, 2025 to Wednesday, July 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the full time Kinesiotherapist - Clinical Specialist position located in the Rehabilitation Care Line at the Chillicothe Ohio VA Medical Center in Chillicothe, Ohio.
Please Note:  The Human Resources Specialist will not make assumptions regarding your qualifications and/or experience so please be sure that you provide a detailed resume along with other supporting documentation (i.e. copy of transcripts, copy of certification, etc.) as proof that you meet all of the qualifications listed. Please follow all instructions carefully. Errors or omissions will affect consideration for employment.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. English Language Proficiency. Kinesiotherapist candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by [38 U.S.C. § 7403 (f).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Education Requirement. You must meet at least one of the requirements below:
Bachelor's degree or higher from a program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Program, with a concentration/emphasis in kinesiotherapy; OR
Bachelor's degree or higher with a concentration/emphasis in kinesiotherapy or exercise science related field and registered as a kinesiotherapist in good standing with the Council of Professional Standards for Kinesiotherapy (COPSKT); OR
Master's degree or higher with a degree in exercise science, kinesiology, human performance or a related field, which has been approved by COPSKT and a certificate verifying completion of a Center of Excellence (COE) Kinesiotherapy clinical training program. The completion of the certificate ensures that COPSKT has approved the degree program as part of the application process for the COE internship.
NOTE: Graduates of a foreign program must meet the requirements if they have a full unrestricted and current registration to practice kinesiotherapy in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth (i.e., Puerto Rico) of the United States or in the District of Columbia. They must have at a minimum, proof of a degree from an accredited college or university (or foreign equivalent, as verified through an independent credentialing evaluation company).

Do you meet the education requirement as described above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Please provide your education information.

Name of Academic Institution:
City and State:
Level of Education:
Month and Year conferred:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. Registration Requirement. All applicants must be registered in kinesiotherapy in good standing with the Council of Professional Standards for Kinesiotherapy (COPSKT).

Do you meet the registration requirement as described above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Please provide your registration information.
Name on Registration:
Complete registration number:
Initial Issuance Date:
Expiration date:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
6. Grandfathering Provision. All persons employed in VHA as a Kinesiotherapist on the effective date (July 16, 2020) of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education and registration that are part of the basic requirements of the Kinesiotherapist occupation.

Do you meet the qualifications standards based on the grandfathering provision as described above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Kinesiotherapist - Clinical Specialist GS-12

Experience. In addition to meeting the basic requirements, one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-11); examples of this experience include, but are not limited to: Skill in communicating and coordinating with patients, families, caregivers, and other health care professions to facilitate the multidisciplinary treatment process; Knowledge of evidence-based kinesiotherapy to provide skilled rehabilitation interventions to a wide variety of patients having multiple disabilities; Ability to conduct independent assessments using highly specialized evaluations and diagnostic tests; Knowledge of learning principles, behavioral intervention, and innovational techniques for patient and caregiver education; Ability to adapt assessment tools and treatment to the complexity of the diagnosis or disabilities and demonstrate the clinical reasoning necessary to identify the need for further in-depth specific assessment of function and utilization of non-standard methods and techniques; Ability to use clinical reasoning necessary to identify the need for further in-depth specific assessment and/or continuation of treatment and one of the following:
Evidence of a minimum of 2,000 hours of clinical practice directly in the specialty area within the last 5 years; or
Certification in the specialty area from an accreditation body approved by COPSKT; or
An additional advanced degree in a related field; or
Completion of a fellowship program.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Knowledge in a range of specialized interventions and treatment modalities used in a specialized treatment area of kinesiotherapy. 
Ability to serve as a consultant/mentor for health care providers regarding the delivery of care within a specialized area of kinesiotherapy.
Skill to perform and interpret specialized evaluative procedures and tests in the treatment outcomes in the assigned specialty area.
Skill in developing protocols and procedures for intervention programs based on current kinesiotherapy theory, recent research, and evidence-based practice.

Do you meet the requirements as described above?

REMINDER: This experience must be fully detailed in your resume.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected