Position Title
Health Technician (Hearing Instrument Specialist)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTA-12814456-26-EC Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 22, 2025 to Wednesday, April 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Basic Requirements for the position of Health Technician (Hearing Instrument Specialist) GS-640


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency Requirement: Per VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Chapter 3, Section A, Paragraph 3j: No person will be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C., chapter 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA who is not proficient in written and spoken English.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Education or Experience. Select the appropriate answer based on your level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.
 I have successfully completed a program of study for Hearing Aid Specialists from the Department of Labor.
 I have successfully completed two academic years above high school that includes coursework related to the field: hearing science, human anatomy and physiology, hearing instrument science, gerontology, psychology or other general healthcare areas. NOTE: There is no combination of education and experience which can be substituted for the basic requirements of this occupational series.
 This requirement applies to me; however, I do not meet either of these two basic requirements.


3.
LICENSURE OR REGISTRATION REQUIREMENT.

Individuals must hold a full, current and unrestricted license or registration to practice as a HIS in a state, territory, commonwealth or the District of Columbia. Please select the response below which indicates how you meet this requirement. PLEASE NOTE: You will be required to provide a copy of your Current Licensure/Registration, if selected for this position.

Loss of Licensure or Registration. A Health Technician (HIS) who fails to maintain the required licensure or registration must be removed from the occupation, which may also result in termination of employment.
 Yes, I hold a current, valid and unrestricted License and/or Registration to practice as a Hearing Instrument Specialist in a state, territory, commonwealth or the District of Columbia.
 No, I do not hold a current, valid and unrestricted License and/or Registration to practice as a Hearing Instrument Specialist in a state, territory, commonwealth or the District of Columbia.


4.
Board Certification. Individuals must hold active board certification from the National Board for Certification in Hearing Instrument Sciences (NBC-HIS).

Exception for Non-Board Certified Health Technician (HIS).
Non-board certified applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for appointment, may be given a temporary appointment as a graduate Health Technician (HIS) under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(c)(2)(B).
Non-board certified individuals shall only provide care under the supervision of a licensed audiologist.
Non-board certified individuals may only be appointed at the entry level and may not be promoted/converted until board certification is obtained.
Temporary appointments of non-board certified Health Technician (HIS) may not be extended beyond two years or converted to a new temporary appointment.
Failure to Obtain Certification. In all cases, Health Technician (HIS) must actively pursue meeting requirements for board certification starting from the date of their appointment. At the time of appointment, the supervisor will provide the Health Technician (HIS) with the written requirements for board certification, including the time (i.e., two years) by which the board certification must be obtained and the consequences for not becoming board certified by the deadline. Failure to obtain board certification during the two-year period may result in termination of employment.

Loss of Certification. A Health Technician (HIS) who fails to maintain the required board certification must be removed from the occupation, which may also result in termination of employment.
 I hold active board certification from the National Board for Certification in Hearing Instrument Sciences (NBC-HIS).
 I do not hold active board certification from the National Board for Certification in Hearing Instrument Sciences (NBC-HIS) and I understand that, if selected, I may only be appointed for a period NTE two-years and if I fail to obtain an active board certification from the National Board for Certification in Hearing Instrument Sciences (NBC-HIS during this temporary appointment period, I will be terminated from my position.
 I do not meet this requirement and I am not planning on obtaining board certification from the National Board for Certification in Hearing Instrument Sciences (NBC-HIS).


5.
GS-5 Grade Determinations/Required Experience/Knowledge, Skills and Abilities: In addition to the basic requirements outlined in paragraph 3, the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities must be met.

Any and ALL CLAIMED experience MUST BE outlined in the content of your resume.
 I have Knowledge of basic anatomy of the head and neck; Knowledge of basic infection control procedures and guidelines; Skill in using basic computer software to complete tasks such as using email, creating spreadsheets and word processing; Ability to follow verbal and written instructions and I have the Ability to maintain stock and supply level inventories.
 In addition to meet the Knowledge, Skills and Abilities listed above, I have performed the task of non-diagnostic otoscopy including proper bracing techniques and making appropriate referrals for abnormalities and cerumen management; rechecking air-conduction pure tone threshold testing to assist the audiologist in modifying the treatment plan during hearing aid repair appointments; providing patient care in hearing aid repair appointments, consistent with the audiologists treatment plan; completing visual and auditory checks with listening stethoscope of hearing aids prior to and following repair of device; and other related duties of a Hearing Instrument Specialist.
 I do not meet the required Knowledge, Skills and Abilities or the required level of specialized experience as described in B above and do not qualify at this grade level.


6.
GS-6 Grade Determinations/Required Experience/Knowledge, Skills and Abilities: In additional to meeting the basic requirements, you must also have one year of experience equivalent to the GS-5 level and be able to demonstrate the following knowledge, skills, and abilities.
Knowledge of normal and abnormal ear anatomy.
Knowledge of hearing aids, hearing assistive technology, hearing aid manufacturers and manufacturer software.
Skill in documenting patient procedures and patient devices.
Skill in providing patient education for hearing aid use, to include assisting patient with hearing aid insertion, removal and hygiene (cleaning and disinfection).
Ability to provide patient education and training regarding hearing loss and communication strategies for various listening situations.
Ability to solve problems or make decisions regarding hearing aids, hearing assistive technology and patient care that is consistent with the documented and co-signed plan of care under the supervision of an audiologist.
Ability to prepare patient, equipment, and/or environment for audiology procedures.
Ability to provide triage of patient telephone calls or audiology requests.

Do you meet the experience requirements as described above? Experience claimed MUST BE supported through the content of your resume.
 Yes, I meet this requirement and I perform the work of a Hearing Instrument Specialist at the GS-6 or equivalent grade level and under the supervision and direction of a licensed Audiologist.
 No, I have the training but have only performed at the GS-5 or equivalent entry-grade level the work of a Hearing Instrument Specialist at the GS-6 or equivalent grade level and under the supervision and direction of a licensed Audiologist.


RESUME REMINDER- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙