Position Title
Field Supervisor
Agency
U.S. Census Bureau
Announcement Number
FLD-2025-0001-FSDN-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, June 20, 2025 to Friday, August 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.
 
2. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
Search 
No matches found
All of, Apache County, AZ
All of, Coconino County, AZ
All of, Gila County, AZ
All of, Graham County, AZ
All of, Greenlee County, AZ
All of, Maricopa County, AZ
All of, Mohave County, AZ
All of, Navajo County, AZ
All of, Pinal County, AZ
All of, Yavapai County, AZ
All of, Adams County, CO
All of, Boulder County, CO
All of, Chaffee County, CO
All of, Delta County, CO
All of, Denver County, CO
All of, Dolores County, CO
All of, Douglas County, CO
All of, Eagle County, CO
All of, El Paso County, CO
All of, Fremont County, CO
All of, Garfield County, CO
All of, Grand County, CO
All of, Gunnison County, CO
All of, Hinsdale County, CO
All of, Jefferson County, CO
All of, La Plata County, CO
All of, Lake County, CO
All of, Mesa County, CO
All of, Mineral County, CO
All of, Moffat County, CO
All of, Montezuma County, CO
All of, Montrose County, CO
All of, Ouray County, CO
All of, Park County, CO
All of, Pitkin County, CO
All of, Rio Blanco County, CO
All of, Rio Grande County, CO
All of, Routt County, CO
All of, Saguache County, CO
All of, San Juan County, CO
All of, San Miguel County, CO
All of, Summit County, CO
All of, Weld County, CO
All of, Anderson County, KS
All of, Coffey County, KS
All of, Douglas County, KS
All of, Franklin County, KS
All of, Johnson County, KS
All of, Linn County, KS
All of, Lyon County, KS
All of, Miami County, KS
All of, Osage County, KS
All of, Wyandotte County, KS
All of, Burt County, NE
All of, Cuming County, NE
All of, Douglas County, NE
All of, Sarpy County, NE
All of, Thurston County, NE
All of, Washington County, NE
All of, Bernalillo County, NM
All of, Dona Ana County, NM
All of, Otero County, NM
All of, Adams County, ND
All of, Billings County, ND
All of, Bottineau County, ND
All of, Bowman County, ND
All of, Burke County, ND
All of, Cass County, ND
All of, Divide County, ND
All of, Dunn County, ND
All of, Golden Valley County, ND
All of, Grant County, ND
All of, Hettinger County, ND
All of, McHenry County, ND
All of, McKenzie County, ND
All of, McLean County, ND
All of, Mercer County, ND
All of, Morton County, ND
All of, Mountrail County, ND
All of, Oliver County, ND
All of, Ransom County, ND
All of, Renville County, ND
All of, Richland County, ND
All of, Rolette County, ND
All of, Sargent County, ND
All of, Slope County, ND
All of, Stark County, ND
All of, Ward County, ND
All of, Williams County, ND
All of, Adair County, OK
All of, Cherokee County, OK
All of, Craig County, OK
All of, Creek County, OK
All of, Delaware County, OK
All of, Garfield County, OK
All of, Grant County, OK
All of, Kay County, OK
All of, Lincoln County, OK
All of, McIntosh County, OK
All of, Muskogee County, OK
All of, Noble County, OK
All of, Nowata County, OK
All of, Okfuskee County, OK
All of, Okmulgee County, OK
All of, Osage County, OK
All of, Ottawa County, OK
All of, Pawnee County, OK
All of, Tulsa County, OK
All of, Washington County, OK
All of, Beadle County, SD
All of, Bennett County, SD
All of, Brookings County, SD
All of, Brown County, SD
All of, Butte County, SD
All of, Clark County, SD
All of, Codington County, SD
All of, Corson County, SD
All of, Custer County, SD
All of, Day County, SD
All of, Deuel County, SD
All of, Dewey County, SD
All of, Edmunds County, SD
All of, Fall River County, SD
All of, Faulk County, SD
All of, Grant County, SD
All of, Gregory County, SD
All of, Haakon County, SD
All of, Hamlin County, SD
All of, Hand County, SD
All of, Harding County, SD
All of, Hughes County, SD
All of, Hyde County, SD
All of, Jackson County, SD
All of, Jones County, SD
All of, Kingsbury County, SD
All of, Marshall County, SD
All of, McPherson County, SD
All of, Meade County, SD
All of, Mellette County, SD
All of, Pennington County, SD
All of, Perkins County, SD
All of, Potter County, SD
All of, Roberts County, SD
All of, Shannon County, SD
All of, Spink County, SD
All of, Stanley County, SD
All of, Sully County, SD
All of, Todd County, SD
All of, Tripp County, SD
All of, Walworth County, SD
All of, Ziebach County, SD
All of, Archer County, TX
All of, Austin County, TX
All of, Baylor County, TX
All of, Bexar County, TX
All of, Brazoria County, TX
All of, Brooks County, TX
All of, Chambers County, TX
All of, Clay County, TX
All of, Cochran County, TX
All of, Collin County, TX
All of, Crosby County, TX
All of, Dallas County, TX
All of, Denton County, TX
All of, Dickens County, TX
All of, Duval County, TX
All of, El Paso County, TX
All of, Ellis County, TX
All of, Fort Bend County, TX
All of, Galveston County, TX
All of, Garza County, TX
All of, Harris County, TX
All of, Haskell County, TX
All of, Hidalgo County, TX
All of, Hockley County, TX
All of, Hunt County, TX
All of, Jim Hogg County, TX
All of, Jim Wells County, TX
All of, Johnson County, TX
All of, Kaufman County, TX
All of, Kent County, TX
All of, King County, TX
All of, Knox County, TX
All of, Liberty County, TX
All of, Lubbock County, TX
All of, Lynn County, TX
All of, Montague County, TX
All of, Montgomery County, TX
All of, Parker County, TX
All of, Rockwall County, TX
All of, Starr County, TX
All of, Stonewall County, TX
All of, Tarrant County, TX
All of, Terry County, TX
All of, Travis County, TX
All of, Waller County, TX
All of, Webb County, TX
All of, Wise County, TX
All of, Yoakum County, TX
All of, Zapata County, TX
All of, Duchesne County, UT
All of, Grand County, UT
All of, Utah County, UT
All of, Wasatch County, UT
All of, Big Horn County, WY
All of, Campbell County, WY
All of, Crook County, WY
All of, Fremont County, WY
All of, Johnson County, WY
All of, Natrona County, WY
All of, Park County, WY
All of, Sheridan County, WY
All of, Teton County, WY
All of, Weston County, WY
2. Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Census FS Specific
1. If your mailing address is different than your home address, please enter the mailing address in its entirety here. If you do not have a different mailing address, please enter N/A for not applicable.
2. This position requires you to work up to 40 hours a week; however, you may work any number of hours in a day and any time of day based on your availability. Keep in mind, most of the work may need to be completed in the evenings and weekends. Are you available to work up to 40 hours a week?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This position requires interviewing respondents when they are most likely to be at home which may be evenings and weekends. Are you willing to work evenings and weekends?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. A requirement of this position is that you will live in the Area of Consideration at the time of hire. You may view the Area of Consideration by clicking on the link in the summary section of this announcement. Will you live within the Area of Consideration at the time of hire?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you currently employed by another Federal government agency? (If you answer yes, and if you are selected, you will need to provide more information about your other federal position.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a retired Federal employee receiving an annuity? NOTE: If you answer yes, you will need to provide more information about your annuity before selection.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Have you accepted a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP/"buyout") from a Federal agency within the past 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. To gain the highest levels of cooperation and trust from the public, the Census must ensure that those selected to Field Supervisory positions do not have any conflicts of interest. Please let us know if you are currently an elected official, or an employee/volunteer with any of the following:


 A. Elected Official
 B. Local, State or Tribal Government
 C. Law Enforcement Organization or Agency
 D. Immigration Organization or Agency
 E. Tax Collection Organization or Agency
 F. None of the Above
9. Do any of your relatives currently work for the Census Bureau? The Census Bureau defines a relative as a parent, spouse, child, grandparent, sibling (including half), aunt, uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, in-laws, and step relatives.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. This position requires you to travel throughout your assigned geographic area. The assigned geographic area can be viewed by clicking the link in the summary section of this announcement. Are you willing to travel throughout this geographic area which could include trips of more than 50 miles from your home and require overnight stays?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you have one year of Specialized Experience requirements for this position as described below? Specialized experience is experience which has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of a Field Supervisor. The applicant must have experience in the following areas: (1) interviewing clients, respondents, and/or customers to gather and obtain data in person and/or by telephone, (2) using a device such as a smart phone, tablet, or computer/laptop to collect data and generate reports, (3) completing work assignments in accordance with production or progress standards, (4) experience applying procedural guidance and/or training to address complex or unusual problems.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Which of the following supervisory tasks do you have experience performing? (Please select all that apply.):
 A. Training employees
 B. Assigning work to employees
 C. Providing guidance to employees on work and administrative actions
 D. Evaluating performance
 E. Disciplining and/or improving performance of employees
 F. Approving payroll and leave
 G. None of the above
3. What experience do you have leading a team that are collecting data (e.g. government surveys, academic surveys, political polling, or marketing research)?
 A. I have no experience leading a team that are collecting data
 B. I have one to six months of experience
 C. I have seven months to a year of experience
 D. I have more than one year of experience
4. Do you have experience leading a team that has direct contact with the public (volunteer or paid) (e.g., sales, teaching, real estate, retail work, fundraising, or social work)?

 A. I have no experience leading a team that deals with the public
 B. I have one to six months of experience
 C. I have seven months to a year of experience
 D. I have more than one year of experience
5. This job requires experience working with technology. Please indicate which of the following you have used previously. (Please select all that apply).
 A. Computer (Desktop or Laptop)
 B. Smart Phone
 C. Tablet
 D. Online maps/GPS
 E. None of the above
6. Select the option that best describes your experience communicating with others.

 A. I have experience accurately explaining and clarifying non-routine information and ideas to others through my own initiative to promote operational efficiency.
 B. I have experience accurately conveying non-routine information to others upon request.
 C. I have experience accurately conveying standard, routine information to others upon request.
 D. I do not have any experience as described above.
7. Have you conducted interviews /quality control interviews for an organization (e.g government surveys, academic surveys, political polling, or marketing research)?

 A. I have extensive experience with conducting interviews/quality control interviews.
 B. I have some experience with conducting interviews/quality control interviews.
 C. I assisted a supervisor with conducting interviews/quality control interviews.
 D. My experience is less than what is described above.
8. Do you have experience convincing reluctant clients, customers, or respondents to answer interview questions (e.g government surveys, academic surveys, political polling, or marketing research)?

 A. I have extensive experience convincing reluctant clients, customers or respondents to answer interview questions.
 B. I have some experience convincing reluctant clients, customers or respondents to answer interview questions.
 C. I assisted a supervisor with convincing reluctant clients, customers or respondents to answer interview questions.
 D. My experience is less than what is described above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
9. Do you have experience handling a large volume of work that requires following strict guidelines, procedures and policies?
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Which one of the following best describes your experience monitoring the efficiency of a team to assess performance?

 A. I have extensive experience performing this task.
 B. I have some experience performing this task.
 C. I have assisted a supervisor to perform this task.
 D. I have no experience in performing this task.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
11. I have experience working under pressure in a fast-paced environment while performing multiple tasks.
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Do you have experience managing multiple projects concurrently and setting priorities to meet objectives?
 A. I have substantial experience managing multiple projects concurrently and setting priorities to meet objectives within a tight schedule.
 B. I have substantial experience managing multiple projects concurrently to meet objectives within a tight schedule but was not responsible for setting priorities.
 C. I have some experience managing multiple projects concurrently and setting priorities to meet objectives within a tight schedule.
 D. I have some experience managing multiple projects concurrently to meet objectives within a tight schedule but was not responsible for setting priorities.
 E. I do not have this experience.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected