Position Title
Optometrist (Clinical)
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJT-26-12821211-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 24, 2025 to Wednesday, October 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Optometrist (Clinical), GS-0662-12, position with the Department of the Defense, Defense Health Agency. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you meet the basic eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Optometrist at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a Doctor of Optometry degree from an educational program that is accredited by the Accreditation Council on Optometric Education (ACOE) at the time the degree was obtained. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
This position requires that you received a passing score on the National Board of Examiners in Optometry (NBEO) examinations and possess a current, full, and unrestricted license to practice optometry in a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. Have you passed the National Board of Examiners in Optometry examination and possess a current, full, and unrestricted license to practice full-scope medical optometry (diagnostic and therapeutic prescribing privileges, including glaucoma, oral medications and controls as needed) in a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States? (Note: You must attach of copy of your license.)
 Yes
 No


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Optometrist at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes examining and treating patients with visual disorders or diseases.
 I have successfully completed one year of a residency program in an institution accredited for such training.
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education as described in B.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙