Position Title
OPERATION SUPPORT SPECIALIST
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12805376-NER-IMP-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 30, 2025 to Thursday, October 9, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current USCIS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 Yes
 No


2.
The Reemployment Priority List (RPL) is the mechanism DHS uses to give reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees separated by reduction-in-force (RIF), or fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a former USCIS employee?  If so, have you met all of the following criteria?
Registered for the RPL program, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupied a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current/most recent performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent, and
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606
For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, visit 5 CFR 330 Subpart B.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
My SF-50 showing Separation - RIF. If that is not available yet, then official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who is in a permanent position that is in the competitive service (see block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type)?

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of our SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who has held, or currently holds, a permanent position in the competitive service (see block #34 of your SF-50) with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?  

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
 Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
I acknowledge the following conditions if I choose to submit my resume through the USAJOBS Resume Builder:
I understand that resumes submitted through USAJOBS Resume Builder are converted to a PDF format when they are transmitted to USA Staffing from the USAJOBS applicant interface and additional spaces/page gaps are added to resumes during the Resume Builder conversion process;
Based on the above conditions, I understand that USCIS strongly encourages me to save my resume to a PDF document and upload the PDF document instead of submitting my resume created through Resume Builder;
I understand that USCIS' human resources will only review the first 2 pages of my resume to determine eligibility/qualifications for this position;
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I have met this requirement for consideration.

(Note: Additional guidance regarding this requirement is available within the How to Submit Your Resume section of the USCIS Resume Requirement FAQs.)
 Yes
 No


2.
There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 Yes
 No
 The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.


3.
Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) from the Federal Government within the last 5 years?
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
GS-13 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the requirement as described above.


2.
You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.


3.
This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-13. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent?
 Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent.
 No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent.
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.


The following section contains a multitude of question types. If you see a radio button, you can only select one response. If you see a checkbox, you may select all that apply.


4.
Which computer systems have you used independently to analyze data?
 A. Applicant Tracking System (ATS) (e.g., USA Staffing, FastHire, Monster)
 B. Treasury Enforcement Communications System (TECS)
 C. Electronic System for Personnel (ESP)
 D. National Finance Center (NFC)
 E. Microsoft Excel
 F. Microsoft Access
 G. E-Verify
 H. None of the above


5.
I consolidated statistical data from a variety of sources to evaluate impacts across an organization.
 True
 False


6.
Select the activities you have performed to ensure the data integrity of electronic systems.
 A. I reviewed immigration benefit applications and petitions for completeness.
 B. I verified the accuracy of data entered.
 C. I updated databases with new/revised immigration benefit information.
 D. I created queries to facilitate data review.
 E. I conducted database searches to identify potential issues (e.g., fraud).
 F. None of the above


7.
Do you have experience translating raw data into reports that informed decisions made at the organization level?
 A. Assisted others compiling raw data into a usable format
 B. Translated raw data into reports for use by management within my division
 C. Translated raw data into reports for distribution outside of my division
 D. Translated raw data into reports to advise management decisions
 E. None of the above


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


8.
Have you been responsible for analyzing incomplete or anomalous data?
 Yes
 No


9.
Which statement describes your experience preparing data and reports?
 I assisted senior staff by compiling data for their use in preparing reports for organizational-wide dissemination.
 I reviewed data reports for conformance with agency/organizational standards.
 I updated spreadsheet or database files used for budgeting.
 I analyzed data in database software (e.g., Microsoft Access) to verify its accuracy.
 I developed a process or system to create recurring data reports for management.
 None of the above.


10.
Select the actions you have performed independently using database software (e.g., Microsoft Access).
 A. Ran existing queries
 B. Built and linked tables within a database
 C. Designed data entry forms
 D. Reconcile inconsistencies across databases
 E. Entered data using existing forms
 F. None of the above


11.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience managing data in spreadsheets and databases?
 I searched for information in existing databases and spreadsheets using sorts, filters, and/or queries.
 I manipulated data in spreadsheets/databases by creating formulas and graphs.
 I created spreadsheets/databases to organize data and performed data entry.
 I am certified in Microsoft Office (or comparable) programs for spreadsheets and/or databases.
 None of the above.


12.
Which types of software have you independently used to organize information?
 A. Word Processing (e.g., Microsoft Word)
 B. Email (e.g., Outlook)
 C. Spreadsheets (e.g., Excel)
 D. Databases (e.g., Access)
 E. Graphics/Presentation Tools (e.g., Power Point)
 F. Project Management Tools (e.g., Microsoft Project)
 G. Collaboration Tools (e.g., SharePoint, Google Docs)
 H. None of the above


13.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience utilizing laws, rules, regulations, policies, and procedures pertaining to Human Resource programs?
 I have completed my daily assignments in accordance with the appropriate Human Resource law, regulation, and/or policy.
 I have resolved Human Resource issues independently, using guidelines or procedures that required considerable interpretation and/or adaptation.
 I have reviewed the work of others to ensure they are following applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
 I have referred non-routine Human Resource questions to higher-level personnel for guidance.
 ?I have no experience, training, or education utilizing Human Resource laws, rules, regulations, policies, or procedures affecting Human Resource program areas


14.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience administering performance management and employee awards programs?
 I have no experience, training, or education administering performance management or employee award programs.
 I have entered award information or performance evaluation ratings prepared by higher level co-workers into a database.
 I responded to program inquiries after independently researching policies.
 I participated in the development and delivery of program training.


15.
Select the areas on which you have provided Human Resource advice.
 A. Superior Qualifications
 B. Noncompetitive Hiring Authorities
 C. Selective Placement Factors
 D. Recruitment Incentives
 E. Retention Incentives
 F. Relocation Incentives
 G. Category Rating
 H. Veterans Preference
 I. Merit Promotion
 J. Public Job Notices
 K. None of the above


16.
Select the human resources functions you have performed independently.
 A. Created personnel actions
 B. Approved personnel actions
 C. Reviewed current staffing levels and predicted future needs
 D. Formulated budgets
 E. Attended job fairs to source candidates
 F. Reviewed budget to determine if cuts needed to be made
 G. Reviewed candidate applications and made selection recommendations
 H. Interviewed potential candidates and made selection recommendations
 I. Determined the number of personnel needed to cover current workload
 J. Reviewed announcement drafts
 K. None of the above


17.
Select the Classification/Position Management areas in which you have experience.
 A. Classification reviews
 B. Position management reviews
 C. Review classification consistency
 D. Organizational design
 E. Position restructuring
 F. None of the above


18.
If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "pass," "satisfactory," or better?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. I am a Federal employee but have not received a performance rating.
 D. Not applicable. I am not a Federal employee.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


19.
Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙