Position Title
Deportation Officer (Over 40)
Agency
Immigration and Customs Enforcement
Announcement Number
ERO-12812088-DHA-HC Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 15, 2025 to Wednesday, December 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or higher than the grade level of the vacancy
the promotion potential (full performance level) of the position you are being separated from is equal to or higher than the promotion potential of the vacancy, and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?
If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or higher than the grade level of the vacancy
the promotion potential (full performance level) of the position you are being separated from is equal to or higher than the promotion potential of the vacancy, and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


4.

1) Are you a current DHS employee in the competitive service with a specific notice of RIF separation or a Certificate of Expected Separation?

OR

2) Are you a former DHS employee in the competitive service separated by Reduction in Force (RIF)?

OR

3) A former competitive service employee fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than 1 year?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or higher than the grade level of the vacancy
the promotion potential (full performance level) of the position you are being separated from is equal to or higher than the promotion potential of the vacancy, and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify your eligibility for option 1); you must submit your RIF separation notice or Certificate of Expected Separation, your most recent SF-50 noting your current position, grade level, and duty location, and a copy of your most recent performance rating.
To verify your eligibility for option 2); you must submit your RIF separation SF-50 and a copy of your most recent performance rating.
To verify your eligibility for option 3); you must submit documentation showing injury compensation benefits cease or the Department of Labor's denial of an appeal for continuation of injury compensation benefits.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Phoenix, AZ
 B. Los Angeles, CA
 C. San Diego, CA
 D. San Francisco, CA
 E. Centennial, CO
 F. Washington, DC
 G. Miami, FL
 H. Atlanta, GA
 I. Chicago, IL
 J. New Orleans, LA
 K. Baltimore, MD
 L. Boston, MA
 M. Detroit, MI
 N. Saint Paul, MN
 O. Newark, NJ
 P. Buffalo, NY
 Q. New York, NY
 R. Philadelphia, PA
 S. Dallas, TX
 T. El Paso, TX
 U. Harlingen, TX
 V. Houston, TX
 W. San Antonio, TX
 X. Salt Lake City, UT
 Y. Seattle, WA


2.
While the location in this announcement has multiple locations, you have the opportunity to identify one duty location preference. Note that multiple duty locations fall within the Area of Responsibility (AOR) of each Field Office Director (FOD) office. Please view the duty locations within each FOD AOR ICE Field Offices | ICE. Your preference location is NOT guaranteed. The duty locations offered will be based on the needs of the agency. If you decline the duty location offered during the official job offer, you will be removed from further consideration. Please be advised that "not all duty locations have vacancies at this time".
Atlanta, GA
Charleston, SC
Charlotte, NC
Cary, NC
Lumpkin, GA
Columbia, SC
Greensboro, NC
Greer, SC
Hendersonville, NC
Savannah, GA
Wilmington, NC
Baltimore, MD
Salisbury, MD
Burlington, MA
Hartford, CT
Manchester, NH
Scarborough, ME
Warwick, RI
St. Albans, VT
Buffalo, NY
Batavia, NY
Malta, NY
Champlain, NY
Chicago, IL
Broadview, IL
Indianapolis, IN
Kansas City, MO
Louisville, KY
Milwaukee, WI
St. Louis, MO
Bowling Green, KY
Rock Island, IL
Springfield, MO
Wichita, KS
Dallas, TX
Oklahoma City, OK
Alvarado, TX
Lubbock, TX
Amarillo, TX
Athens, TX
Big Spring, TX
Anson, TX
San Angelo, TX
Tulsa, OK
Centennial, CO
Aurora, CO
Florence, CO
Frederick, CO
Alamosa, CO
Cheyenne, WY
Craig, CO
Durango, CO
Grand Junction, CO
Detroit, MI
Cincinnati, OH
Brooklyn Heights, OH
Westerville, OH
Grand Rapids, MI
El Paso, TX
Albuquerque, NM
Midland, TX
Chaparral, NM
Roswell, NM
Las Cruces, NM
Pecos, TX
Harlingen, TX
Laredo, TX
Edinburg, TX
Los Fresnos, TX
Corpus Christi, TX
Raymonville, TX
Houston, TX
Livingston, TX
Conroe, TX
Huntsville, TX
Waco, TX
Los Angeles, CA
Adelanto, CA
San Bernardino, CA
Santa Ana, CA
Camarillo, CA
Santa Maria, CA
Plantation, FL
Pompano Beach, FL
Ft. Myers, FL
Jacksonville, FL
Miami, FL
Miramar, FL
Orlando, FL
Guaynabo, PR
Stuart, FL
Tallahassee, FL
Tampa, FL
Aguadilla, PR
St. Thomas, VI
New Orleans, LA
Oakdale, LA
Alexandria, LA
Baton Rouge, LA
Birmingham, AL
Pearl, MS
Jena, LA
Little Rock, AR
Winnfield, LA
Knoxville, TN
Chattanooga, TN
Gadsden, AL
Fayetteville, AR
Ft. Smith, AR
Gulfport, MS
Lafayette, LA
Memphis, TN
Mobile, AL
Montgomery, AL
Nashville, TN
Texarkana, AR
New York, NY
Central Islip, NY
Newark, NJ
Mt. Laurel, NJ
Elizabeth, NJ
Philadelphia, PA
Philipsburg, PA
Pittsburgh, PA
York, PA
Charleston, WV
Dover, DE
Lords Valley, PA
Williamsport, PA
Phoenix, AZ
Florence, AZ
Eloy, AZ
Tucson, AZ
Yuma, AZ
Salt Lake City, UT
Boise, ID
Las Vegas, NV
Billings, MT
Idaho Falls, ID
Ogden, UT
Orem, UT
Reno, NV
St. George, UT
Twin Falls, ID
San Antonio, TX
Austin, TX
Del Rio, TX
Karnes City, TX
Pearsall, TX
Taylor, TX
San Diego, CA
Calexico, CA
El Centro, CA
San Francisco, CA
Bakersfield, CA
Fresno, CA
Honolulu, HI
Sacramento, CA
Redding, CA
Morgan Hill, CA
Stockton, CA
Tamuning, Guam
Seattle, WA
Tacoma, WA
Portland, OR
Yakima, WA
Anchorage, AK
Eugene, OR
Ferndale, WA
Medford, OR
Richland, WA
Fort Snelling, MN
Omaha, NE
Des Moines, IA
Cedar Rapids, IA
Grand Forks, ND
Grand Island, NE
North Platte, NE
Sioux City, IA
Sioux Falls, SD
Chantilly, VA
Bowling Green, VA
Richmond, VA
Harrisonburg, VA
Norfolk, VA
Salem, VA


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service? If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


4.
I acknowledge that I am solely responsible for the answers and documentation submitted in my online application. I understand that my answers cannot be altered once I have submitted my application and the announcement has closed. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information contained in my online application for Federal Employment is true, correct, complete, and made in good faith. I understand that a false or fraudulent answer to any question or item on any part of my online application may be grounds for not hiring me, or for firing me after I begin work, and may be punishable by fine or imprisonment or both (See section 1001 of title 18, United States Code).

By clicking "Yes" below, I certify that I accept responsibility for the responses and documentation submitted in my online application and that the information I have provided is true to the best of my knowledge.
 Yes
 No


5.
Do any of your family members work for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement?

(A family member means an individual with any of the following relationships to the applicant: (1) Spouse, and parents thereof; (2) Sons and daughters, and spouses thereof; (3) Parents, and spouses thereof; (4) Brothers and sisters, and spouses thereof; (5) Grandparents and grandchildren, and spouses thereof; (6) Domestic partner and parents thereof, including domestic partners of any individual in (2) through (5) of this definition; and (7) Any individual related by blood or affinity whose close association with the employee is the equivalent of a family relationship.)

 Yes
 No


6.
If the answer to the question above is yes, please provide the relative(s)' name, relationship, and the ICE office or organization for which your relative(s) works (if known).

If the answer to the question above is no, please indicate 'not applicable'.


7.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


8.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


Conditions of Employment
7.
Have you ever knowingly harbored, concealed, transported, or employed an undocumented individual(s)?
 No, I have never intentionally harbored, concealed, transported, or employed an undocumented individual(s)
 Yes, I have intentionally harbored, concealed, transported, or employed an undocumented individual(s)


8.
Have you engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, holding facility, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution as defined in 42 U.S.C. 1997?
 No, I have not engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, holding facility, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution as defined in 42 U.S.C. 1997.
 Yes, I have engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, holding facility, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution as defined in 42 U.S.C. 1997.


9.
Have you been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or where the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse, or have you been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in such activity?
 No, I have not been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or where the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse, or civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in such activity.
 Yes, I have been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or where the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse, or civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in such activity.


10.
Have you ever been made aware of that any government attorney did not want you to testify on behalf of the government due to concerns under Giglio v. United States, 405 U.S. 150 (1972) (i.e., that you are Giglio impaired)?
 No, I have never been made aware of being Giglio impaired
 Yes, I have been made aware of being Giglio impaired; however, I have been made aware that the government no longer considers me Giglio impaired
 Yes, I have been made aware of and I am currently Giglio impaired


11.
Have you ever participated in a federal polygraph examination in conjunction with a pre-employment hiring process?
 No, I have never participated in a federal polygraph examination
 Yes, I have participated in a federal polygraph examination.


12.
If you chose response B in the previous question, provide the approximate date and agency which conducted the polygraph examination. Otherwise type "Not Applicable"


The following questions will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.


13.
Do you have a current valid State driver's license?
 Yes
 No


14.
Will you be able to obtain a valid driver's license before entering on duty as a Deportation Officer?
 Yes
 No
 Not applicable. I currently possess a valid driver's license


15.
Physical Fitness Testing: Due to the physical demanding nature of duties related to law enforcement occupations within the Office of Enforcement and Removal Operations and associated training programs, a mandatory pre-employment physical fitness test (PFT) will be used to screen applicants who would attend the ICE Basic Immigration Enforcement Training Program. The fitness test includes: 1) Kneel/Stand Test: 10 changes of position within 25 seconds, followed by 2 minutes of upright kneeling, following by coming to a full standing position. 2) Push-Ups: 15 push-ups within 2 minutes. 3) 5-minute Cardiovascular Endurance Step Test: The steps will be 16 inches high. The step test will be conducted at a cadence of 96 steps per minute. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


16.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a preemployment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


17.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully complete a background investigation. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


18.
Applicants may be required to undergo and successfully complete a polygraph test. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


19.
Applicants who are referred for polygraph testing will be required to travel to a testing location at their own expense. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


New recruits to the Deportation Officer job receive extensive training at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center before beginning official duties. Please answer the following questions with the understanding that you will be trained before assuming duty as a Deportation Officer. These questions represent some, but not all, of the essential functions of the Deportation Officer occupation.


20.
Applicants are required to undergo a comprehensive medical examination. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


21.
If you found yourself in a "life-threatening" situation, do you feel you could use deadly force (e.g., use your firearm) to protect your life, the lives of fellow officers, or the lives of innocent bystanders?
 Yes
 No


22.
Would you be able to work alone in remote areas throughout the night or at times when you may have limited communication and may be at a high risk of danger?
 Yes
 No


23.
Would you be willing to work a rotating shift that may include weekends and holidays?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙