Position Title
Wildland Firefighter (State Aviation Manager) - Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Bureau of Land Management
Announcement Number
FADHA-25-12753529-CMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 3, 2025 to Thursday, July 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Career Transition Assistance Plan:  Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced or surplused from the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which I have been or will be separated; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.   
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan: Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am currently in a position at the same grade level or higher than the position being announced; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
11
12
Survey Questions
1. My resume contains hours worked per week for each season and position held. For example, 1 year of experience is equivalent to 12 months at 40 hours per week (full-time). Part-time hours are prorated. I understand that I will not receive any credit for a position listed that does not include hours worked per week.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. My resume contains the beginning and ending dates (month/year to month/year) and grade level (if federal service) for each period of work experience/employment. I understand failure to adequately include this information may affect my qualification determination for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I consent to the release of information about my ability and fitness for Federal employment by employers, schools, law enforcement agencies, and other individuals and organizations to investigators, human resource specialists, and other authorized employees or representatives of the Federal Government. I understand that for some other sources of information, a separate specific release may be needed, and I may be contacted for such a release at a later date.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I have read the "How to Apply" & "Required Documents" sections and understand that failure to submit any required documents may result in my being found not qualified.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I understand that additional selections may be made from this vacancy, within the same geographical area, by other bureaus from within the DOI, through shared recruiting activities, and my application may be shown to multiple hiring offices. Additional selections for similar positions across the entire Department of the Interior within the local commuting area(s) identified in this vacancy announcement may be made. By applying, I agree to have my application shared with any interested selecting official(s) within the DOI. There is no option to opt-out as my information will not be shared with other hiring agencies outside of the DOI. Applying to this announcement does not replace the need to apply to other job opportunity announcements for which you wish to receive consideration.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. I understand that I must ensure my resume, supporting documents (SF-50 or other official document to verify date of birth), transcripts, fire qualifications (IQCS), etc., are not password protected or contain redacted information that could make my application package ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported in your resume and supporting documents.
1. I qualify for the GS-11 because:
 A. I am a current or former federal employee who served in a competitive or excepted appointment and I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level in the Federal service. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience to qualify for this position and I will provide an SF50 with my application to verify that I am a current or former federal employee.
 B. I am not or have never been a federal employee who served in a competitive or excepted appointment, and I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-10 level in the Federal service. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience to qualify for this position.
 C. I do not meet any of the above responses.
2. I qualify for the GS-12 because I have one year of specialized wildland fire management experience equivalent to the GS-11 level in the Federal service. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience needed to qualify for this position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Indicate the following aviation management tasks that you have performed as part of a job:

 A. Conduct an aviation needs analyses with resource program managers.
 B. Plan and monitor an organizational aviation budget.
 C. Serve as a technical expert on national aviation management initiatives.
 D. Prepare, review, and disseminate aviation policy statements, memos, safety bulletins, manuals and/or handbooks throughout an organization.
 E. Advise program leaders of technical, administrative and fiscal requirements concerning aviation procurement.
 F. Monitor vendor, pilot and aircraft contract performance and mediate local problems.
 G. Manage an organizational aviation training program to meet organizational aviation training requirements and ensure that all employees managing, supervising, or involved in aircraft operations are well trained and fully qualified.
 H. Maintain an organizations aviation training and qualification records.
 I. Analyze new aviation technology advances in aircraft avionics, navigational systems, support equipment and personal protective equipment for application and enhancement of an organizations aviation activity.
 J. None of the above.
4. Indicate your level of involvement responding to aviation incidents or accidents.

 A. I am considered a subject matter expert and have been a member of an accident investigation team appointed at a national level.
 B. I am responsible for maintaining the aviation accident/incident response guide for my unit, and I have been directly involved with supporting and responding to aviation related accident and investigation.
 C. I am responsible for maintaining the aviation accident/incident response guide for my unit, but I have not been directly involved with responding or supporting an aviation related accident and investigation.
 D. I have received multiple briefings on aviation accident/incident response guides from different agencies, and I am responsible for relaying any procedures for responding to accident/incidents to aircrew members that I work with.
 E. None of the above.
5. Select all the statements from below that describe your level of knowledge and experience in aviation training concepts and methods.

 A. I have developed and instructed non-aviation classroom training courses for educational institutions, corporations, civilian, military or other organizations.
 B. I have developed and instructed aviation classroom training courses for educational institutions, corporations, civilian, military or other organizations.
 C. I have experience developing aviation training policy, curricula and requirements for pilots and aviation management personnel conducting natural resource aircraft missions.
 D. I have led the development of innovative aviation instructional programs such as Computer Based Training, Flight/Mission Simulators, Sand-Table Exercises, etc.
 E. None of the above.
6. Select the statement that best describes your experience in using government acquisition regulations and management practices for contracting and procuring fire equipment.

 A. These tasks have been a central or major part of my job. I have routinely performed these tasks and I have trained others in the performance of these tasks and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing these tasks.
 B. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 C. I have professional knowledge of these tasks on the job. My work in these tasks was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have completed education or training in these tasks but have not yet applied this education or training on the job.
 E. I have not had education, training or experience in this task.
7. Indicate your level of experience with airspace management.

 A. I am considered an expert in the airspace management field and support national incidents as an Airspace Coordinator or Airspace Manager.
 B. I actively participate with airspace management groups on a regular basis, coordinating the use of airspace over a large geographical area with multiple agencies.
 C. I have a good working knowledge of airspace management and participate in the de-confliction procedures established for my area with our aircraft.
 D. I understand the need to manage or de-conflict the airspace between multiple agencies using the airspace, but I do not directly participate in the procedures established for my area.
 E. None of the above.
8. Identify the professional aviation work related to Fire/Fuels Management Support you have performed on the job:

 A. Advise fire management officers on aircraft performance, capabilities, limitations, cost-effectiveness and support requirements for firefighting aircraft.
 B. Conduct Fire Readiness Reviews of fire helicopter and fire-retardant bases.
 C. Visit permanent and temporary airbases during periods of high fire activity to observe operations, resolve problems, and provide recommendations for safety and improvement.
 D. Coordinate with local, regional and national fire dispatch/coordination offices and cooperating agencies to establish aircraft priorities, availability, placement and efficient use of firefighting aircraft.
 E. Serve on an Incident Management Team or as miscellaneous overhead in the National Interagency Incident Management System (NIIMS).
 F. None of the above.
9. Identify the specialized work related to directing and coordinating fire suppression resources that you perform as part of your work:

 A. Track status of all helicopters, air tankers and other resources.
 B. Order additional tactical and/or logistical aircraft.
 C. Monitor ground resource locations in relation to the fire environment and their escape routes/safety zones.
 D. Evaluate status and/or need for temporary flight restrictions.
 E. Identify the need for additional communication frequencies and order through proper channels.
 F. None of the above.
10. Indicate your level of experience managing air base facilities.

 A. I am considered the primary manager designated for the permanent air base facilities located on my unit.
 B. I am the assistant manager or considered the primary backup for the designated air base manager for the permanent facilities located on my unit.
 C. I assist the air base manager as needed during the primary fire season.
 D. I have very little experience with help at air base facilities.
 E. None of the above.
11. Indicate the following tasks related to aviation safety and accident prevention that you have performed as part of a job:

 A. Develop an aviation safety plan for an organization.
 B. Implement an aviation safety plan for an organization.
 C. Prepare and/or review Special Use Safety Plans for specific flights and projects to insure hazard and risk mitigation.
 D. Perform risk management assessments of on-going activities, proposed aviation missions, and/or over-all program standards.
 E. Analyze aviation program performance and systems to identify deficiencies.
 F. Initiate change in aviation organizational safety procedures and requirements to improve program performance and systems.
 G. Prepare Aviation Incident/Accident Response Guide for an organization.
 H. Update and disseminate Aviation Incident/Accident Response Guide for use in an organization.
 I. Provide guidance on the use of aircraft during Search and Rescue activities.
 J. Serve as the focal point for submission and review of aviation incident/hazard reports.
 K. Recommend corrective action to management and staff to remedy situations identified in incident/hazard reports.
 L. Provide follow-up on aviation incident/hazard reports to ensure unsafe conditions and operations are rectified.
 M. Prepare unit aviation incident/hazard reports summary, analysis and recommendations on an annual basis.
 N. Provide expertise in the operational planning of aviation activities on or near Military Training Routes or within Special Use Airspace.
 O. Coordinate with military, Federal Aviation Administration and other agency officials to deconflict airspace over public lands.
 P. Coordinate with military, Federal Aviation Administration and other agency officials to prepare cooperative airspace management agreements.
 Q. Perform aviation safety reviews in the field periodically or spontaneously.
 R. Serve as a member of aviation safety teams and accident investigation teams.
 S. None of the above.
12. Choose the statement that best represents your knowledge level regarding Federal Aviation Regulations and regulatory processes affecting public and commercial aviation activities.

 A. I have experience planning and managing natural resource aviation activities utilizing government-owned and commercially procured aircraft.
 B. I have experience planning and managing aircraft operations as a commercial operator on contract with government natural resource agencies.
 C. I have experience planning and managing large scale military air operations involving both military aircraft and commercially procured aircraft.
 D. I have experience as a government technical compliance specialist in the area of aircraft maintenance, airworthiness, specialized aircraft equipment or pilot evaluation/certification.
 E. None of the above.
13. I have developed and implemented an Aviation Management Plan in order to standardize aviation policy, procedures, procurement, training, and accident prevention measures for a natural resources and/or fire management program.

 A. True
 B. False
14. Select the statements from below that represent your knowledge and experience regarding the application of aircraft accident prevention concepts and methods.

 A. I have developed and applied aircraft accident prevention measures in the form of new aviation management policies, aircraft contract specifications and operational procedures at a national level of a natural resource agency.
 B. I have developed and applied aircraft accident prevention measures in the form of new aviation management policies, aircraft contract specifications and operational procedures at a state, regional or unit level of a natural resource agency.
 C. I have completed accredited university courses (or equivalent) in Aviation Safety Program Management, Aircraft Accident Prevention or Aviation Risk Management.
 D. I have developed and applied aircraft accident prevention measures as a military officer or manager of a commercial aviation firm.
 E. None of the above.
15. Indicate your level of experience of working with interagency partners in the field of aviation management.

 A. I interact with multiple agencies on a frequent basis year-round with many different facets of aviation management.
 B. I interact with multiple agencies generally pre, post and during the fire season concerning aviation management.
 C. I interact with multiple agencies throughout fire season generally concerning the tactical planning and execution of aviation missions.
 D. I interact with multiple agencies on an occasional basis.
 E. None of the above.
16. Indicate your level of writing aviation policy for a local unit.

 A. I am considered the primary individual who writes, reviews, and distributes all of the aviation policy documents for my unit.
 B. I have written some aviation policy for my unit, and I am considered an excellent source of knowledge for aviation policy.
 C. I have a good working knowledge of aviation policy and assist with writing aviation policy for my unit. [0 D. I have not written any aviation policy for my unit.
17. Indicate your experience level teaching aviation type courses.

 A. I am considered a subject matter expert and have been the lead instructor for aviation related classes at the national, state and local levels.
 B. I have assisted with numerous aviation classes and have been a lead instructor for a class taught at a state or regional level.
 C. I have assisted with numerous aviation classes as a unit instructor and have been a lead instructor for a course taught at a local level.
 D. I have assisted with aviation related classes at the unit level, never as a lead instructor.
 E. None of the above.
18. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected