Position Title
INFORMATION SECURITY SPECIALIST (TITLE 5)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-12804850-AF-25-026A Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, October 20, 2025 to Friday, October 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required. 

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently serving on Active Duty? If, yes you must provide a "current DD 214 or Statement/Memo from your Command". The statement of service must provide the branch of service, rate/rank, all dates of service, the expected date of discharge and anticipated character of service (Honorable, General, etc).

 Yes
 No


3.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


Requirements
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 NC National Guard employee (Title 32 (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5) working at (145th AW) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 NC National Guard employee (Title 32 (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5) working at a NC National Guard unit/activity, other than (145th AW) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently a Federal Employee "not" employed by the NC National Guard.
 Area 5 - I am currently a U.S. Citizens, NOT employed as a Federal Employee.
 None of the Areas listed above apply to my current status.


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the General Experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-0080-12 Information Security Specialist.
 I HAVE the education and validated understanding of the basic principles and concepts of the occupational series and grade and can demonstrate the ability to 1) analyze problems to identify significant factors, gather pertinent data, and recognize solutions; 2) plan and organize work; and 3) communicate effectively orally and in writing.
 I DO NOT HAVE the education and validated understanding listed above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-0080-12 Information Security Specialist.
 I HAVE at least 1 year equivalent to at least next lower grade level experience of the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the positions, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled.
 I DO NOT have at least 1 year equivalent to at least next lower grade of the experience, education or training listed above.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-0080-12 Information Security Specialist.
 I HAVE experience in 1) serving as the Wing Information Protection Program Manager executing/enforcing all operational, functional, and mission assurance aspects of the program; 2) formulating wing program goals, plans, policy implementation guidelines, procedures, and work plans dealing with the development and operation of wing-wide information security programs and activities and provides technical and administrative direction to subordinate wing information security personnel; 3) interpreting National Guard Bureau (NGB), Air National Guard (ANG), Air Force (AF), Department of Defense (DoD), and other federal regulations for information security processes as they apply and are implemented within the Wing; 4) preparing information security review reports and providing recommendations and advice; 5) analyzing and evaluating the classification downgrading, declassification, and destruction programs; 6) advising installation project engineers, project managers, command mission leads, action officers, and effected operational officers of their responsibility to provide proper classified management guidance and specification requirements during performance of respective duties; 7) overseeing, directing, monitoring, and conducting regulatory and non-regulatory security surveys and Information Security Program Reviews (ISPRs) to monitor and enforce implementation and oversight of DoD Information, Personnel, and Industrial Security Programs; 8) making information protection risk assessments and risk management/mitigation strategies/recommendations based on intelligence-derived threat issues that may require deviations from or synthesis of policies; 9) using initiative and resourcefulness in researching and implementing new and improved security methods and procedures; 10) delivering Security Awareness and Education Programs to satisfy security education and training requirements for all assigned organizations; 11) overseeing the development of recurring education and training for Top Secret Control Officers (TSCO) and Original Classification Authorities (OCA); 12) exercising supervisory personnel management responsibilities; and 13) directing the overarching focus and direction of the organization.
 I DO NOT HAVE the experience or knowledge listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙