Position Title
Theater Cashier ( Flix)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12790944 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 29, 2025 to Thursday, September 11, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Please, respond all questions below.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Irregular working hours may be required to include early shift, late shift, evenings, weekends and holidays when the need arises. Are you available to work all shifts including on weekends and holidays?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you have experience in operating a Point of Sale System (POS), and/or cash register and receiving various kinds of payments and making change?
 A. I have 2+ years of experience in the above.
 B. I have 1-2 year of experience in the above.
 C. I have 6 months-1-year experience in the above.
 D. I have less than 6 months experience in the above.
 E. I have no experience in the above.
3. Indicate your level of experience with basic arithmetic in computing charges and making accurate change.
 A. I have 2+ years of experience in the above.
 B. I have 1-2 year of experience in the above.
 C. I have 6 months-1-year experience in the above.
 D. I have less than 6 months experience in the above.
 E. I have no experience in the above.
4. Describe your experience with customer service and dealing with the public.
 A. 1 year or more direct experience within MWR or other government program.
 B. 1 year or more experience outside MWR/DOD program.
 C. 6 months to 1 year experience.
 D. No experience.
5. Describe your Food Handling experience.
 A. Prior MWR food handling experience (snack bars or food & beverage).
 B. One or more years of food handling experience outside of MWR.
 C. Less than 6 months of food handling experience outside of MWR.
 D. No food handing experience.
6. Do you have clerical experience such as maintaining routine reports?
 A. I have more than 1 year of clerical experience.
 B. I have 3 months to 1 year of clerical experience.
 C. I have less than 6 months of clerical experience.
 D. I have no clerical experience.
7. Do you have the ability to follow verbal and written instructions?
 A. Yes, I have the ability to follow verbal and written instructions.
 B. No, I do not have the ability to follow verbal and written instructions.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected