Position Title
Recreation Assistant (Fitness)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12807576 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 29, 2025 to Sunday, October 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Internal Applicant
1.
Are you a current Non-Appropriated Fund (NAF) employee with Naval District Washington?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Recreation Assistant position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Select the response applicable to you.
 I have 1 year of specialized experience e.g. provide a variety of support duties to operate fitness, sports, or aquatic facilities of recreation activities such as maintaining and updating reservation schedules and planning, arranging and executing activities for military, civilians and family members.
 I have an Associate's degree or higher that includes at least 12 semester hours in courses related to recreation.
 I have none of the above.


2.
How many years of experience do you have with providing customer service e.g. providing timely and attentive service to internal and external customers, clear communication skills, product knowledge, and positive attitude)?
 I have more than 3 years of experience as described above.
 I have 2-3 years of experience as described above.
 I have 1 - 2 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have working in recreational fitness, sports, or aquatic programs?
 I have more than 3 years of experience as described above.
 I have 2-3 years of experience as described above.
 I have 1 - 2 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙