Position Title
SECRETARY (OA)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
OH-12778474-AR-25-262-T5 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 14, 2025 to Friday, August 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Area of Consideration
1. Are you a current on-board Title 5 Federal Employee in the Ohio National Guard?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you possess experience, education, or training performing any combination of the following tasks: typing (letters, forms); general clerical (answering the telephone, receiving visitors, composing correspondence, filing, reviewing outgoing correspondence for grammar, format, etc.) stenographic (taking and transcribing shorthand); experience using computer and automation systems?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you possess experience that equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSA's) to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the position to be filled? To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-6).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
3. Reviews and processes incoming and outgoing correspondence, reports, and other materials submitted for the Commander's signature. Receives and screens all publications, regulations, and directives directed to the Commander and brings to the Commander's attention those elements affecting the Commander's area of jurisdiction; specifically indicating procedural changes and furnishing all related materials. Screens incoming mail to identify what needs to be brought to the attention of the supervisor, referred to appropriate staff, rerouted to other organizations/offices, or handled personally. Establishes and monitors suspense dates and brings to supervisor's attention those that cannot be met by requested date or when there is a conflict. Consolidates reports submitted by subordinate units and reviews outgoing correspondence prepared by others for procedural and grammatical accuracy, conformance with general policy, and factual correctness. Advises the writer of any deviations or inadequacies. Responsible for extensive, formal internal and external coordination of the work of the office with the work of other offices and recognizes the need for such coordination in various circumstances. Advises secretaries in subordinate organizations concerning such matters as the information to be provided by the subordinate organizations for use in conferences or reports.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
4. Receives telephone calls, greets visitors and ascertains the nature of the calls or visits, screening those that can be handled without supervisor's help. Places both local and long distance calls for Commander or staff personnel. Monitors visitors including general officers, distinguished Air Force and Department of Defense (DoD) visitors, members of Congress and Congressional representatives, foreign dignitaries, high ranking personnel from other government agencies, and to the general public and reports such visits to the Commander. Based on detailed knowledge of the organization and its programs and operations, refers telephone calls and visitors to appropriate staff or office. Personally handles many matters and answers substantive non-technical requests for information which can be provided based on information from records and files or personal knowledge of the organization. Receives requests for information, advises when the material can be furnished, and provides status of reports, suspense dates for matters requiring compliance, and similar information. Determines which of established alternatives to use to resolve complaints/problems. Provides follow-up on requests for information.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected