Position Title
Supervisory National Bank Examiner (Examiner-in-Charge), NB-0570-VIII
Agency
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
Announcement Number
MP-HQ-WT-25-5452-12795901 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 12, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current OCC employee on a permanent appointment (includes rotational positions) in the Excepted Service or Competitive Service who has not held the band/grade level of the position being advertised?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current OCC employee on a permanent appointment (includes rotational positions) in the Excepted Service or Competitive Service who has held the band/grade level and promotion potential of the position being advertised?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Not Applicable
2. May we contact your current supervisor for a reference?
 A. Yes
 B. No
If you are an annuitant, your salary or annuity may be reduced upon employment.
3. If you are among the best-qualified applicants referred for consideration, you may be required to complete one (or more) job-related structured interviews and assessments. The disclosure of structured interview questions and assessment questions undermines merit-based selection processes.

Applicants are expressly prohibited from disclosing, publishing, reproducing, posting, or transmitting the content of the structured interview questions and assessments in whole or in part, in any form or by any means, oral or written, electronic or mechanical, for any purpose1.
Applicants who are not willing to abide by these conditions will NOT be able to participate in the selection process.
If an applicant is found to have violated this agreement, they will be disqualified.
If an applicant is a current OCC employee or becomes an OCC employee and is found to have violated this agreement, they may be subject to disciplinary action up to and including removal.

I agree to comply with the above statement:
 A. Yes
 B. No
1"These provisions are consistent with and do not supersede, conflict with, or otherwise alter the employee obligations, rights, or liabilities created by existing statute or Executive order relating to (1) classified information, (2) communications to Congress, (3) the reporting to an Inspector General or the Office of Special Counsel of a violation of any law, rule, or regulation, or mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to public health or safety, or (4) any other whistleblower protection. The definitions, requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions, and liabilities created by controlling Executive orders and statutory provisions are incorporated into this agreement and are controlling." This agreement, policy or form (as applicable) does not prohibit or restrict "an employee or applicant for employment from disclosing to Congress, the Special Counsel, the Inspector General of an agency, or any other agency component responsible for internal investigation or review any information that relates to any violation of any law, rule, or regulation, or mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to public health or safety, or any other whistleblower protection." 5 U.S.C. § 2302(b)(13).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.

Your answers to the following questions should reflect the qualifications you possess, or expect to possess, within 30 calendar days after the closing date of the announcement. 

Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Are you a current OCC employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the NB-VII level, as described in the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement? Please review the announcement carefully before responding.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I understand that my resume must contain sufficient information to show that I meet the minimum qualification requirements, and that to ensure I receive any credit for relevant work experience, my resume should include the start and end dates for each job held (month and year), number of hours worked per week, and a description of duties performed in each job.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. List the position titles, grade levels (if federal service), dates (month/day/year), and number of hours per week for each position held that meets the one year specialized experience requirement. Please make sure your resume adequately describes your job responsibilities for each position listed.

Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. Are you credentialed or expect to receive your NBE commission within 30 calendar days after the closing date of this announcement to lead exams of national banks?

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. In the text box below please specify the date (month/year) that you received or expect to receive your NBE Commission. If you don't expect to receive the commission within 30 days please type not applicable.
7. Which of the following areas have you been designated as a subject matter expert by your line of business (Large Bank Supervision, MidSize or District) or field office:
 A. Capital Markets
 B. Commercial Credit
 C. Retail Credit
 D. Operational Risk
 E. Capital - DFAST -Basel II/III
 F. Accounting
 G. Information Technology
 H. Asset Management/Trust
 I. Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering
 J. Enterprise Risk Management
 K. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the only response selected for this item).
8. Select the response that best describes your experience applying a full range of design, analytical and/or evaluative methods utilized to foster change management and/or make recommendations on new and/or proposed supervision and/or program initiatives.
 A. I have considered an expert and have provided technical guidance and direction to others on performing this task as one of the major duties of a position or positions I have held.
 B. I have experience performing this task frequently as one of the regular duties of a position or positions I have held. I perform this task independently, with minimal supervision and technical guidance.
 C. I have experience performing this task frequently as one of the regular duties of a position or positions I have held. I perform this task with technical guidance and assistance from a supervisor.
 D. I have experience performing this task, but it was not a regular part of my duties.
 E. I have no experience or training performing this task.
9. Which financial institution risks and activities do you have experience performing detailed risk assessment, risk
identification, and/or evaluation of risk controls:
 A. Commercial or commercial real estate credit
 B. Retail credit, including mortgage banking
 C. Liquidity and funding
 D. Trading operations
 E. Asset Liability Management
 F. Market Risk, including Value at Risk and specific risk modeling
 G. Capital planning, including economic capital and capital stress testing
 H. Operational risk which includes payment and custody processing
 I. Banking regulations, including examination and supervisory methods
 J. Asset Management /Trust
 K. Compliance
 L. Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering
 M. Information Technology
 N. Enterprise Risk Management
 O. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the only response selected for this position).
10. Select the response that best describes your experience utilizing new ideas and innovations to improve processes and predict likely impacts on supervisory strategies and/or supervision initiatives.
 A. I have not had any education, training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job. I have performed it independently and without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or is normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them doing this task because of my expertise.
11. Which types of products have you written?
 A. Reports of Examination (ROEs) assigning all CAMELS, rating of 3, 4, or 5
 B. Enforcement actions such as Civil Money Penalty or 8(e) removal order recommendation memorandum
 C. Standard Operating Procedures or Policy Directives
 D. Quarterly Risk Assessment Summary (RAS) covering all risk areas
 E. Annual Core Assessment covering all risk areas
 F. Quarterly RAS covering one risk area
 G. Annual Core Assessment covering one risk area
 H. None of the above (If selected, be sure this is the only response selected for this item).
12. Which examination products you have written?
 A. 2 rated report of examination
 B. 2 rated report of examination with enforcement action
 C. 3 rated report of examination
 D. 3 rated report examination with enforcement action
 E. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the only response selected for this item).
13. Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of experience analyzing supervisory strategies and/or systemic risk information?
 A. I have training or experience analyzing supervisory strategies and/or systemic risk information.
 B. I have training but no experience analyzing supervisory strategies and/or systemic risk information.
 C. I have worked as part of team analyzing supervisory strategies and/or systemic risk information.
 D. I have independently analyzed supervisory strategies and/or systemic risk information and provided the results of my analysis to others to form conclusions.
 E. I have independently analyzed supervisory strategies and/or systemic risk information and developed conclusions supported by documentation.
 F. I have performed all of the activities described in option E, and have also been responsible for reviewing and validating the accuracy of others' analysis, conclusions, and documentation.
14. Select the response which best describes your communication as it relates to strategic planning, workforce planning and/or supervisory strategy activities.
 A. Developed and presented strategic planning, workforce planning and/or supervisory strategy information to management officials and other staff within the organization; conducted staff meetings and/or meetings on such program areas; and explained program procedures and practices to employees and managers in the organization.
 B. Briefed top management on strategic planning, workforce planning and/or supervisory strategy proposals or programs; defended positions on issues related to such programs; addressed internal groups or local customers on key strategic, supervisory and/or workforce planning and organizational development functions and policies; and served as a spokesperson for a strategic planning and/or organizational development program area.
 C. Presented strategic planning, workforce planning and/or supervisory strategy information to top management when the point of view expressed is controversial or likely to be met with opposition; conducted presentations to external groups on all encompassing topics; explained and/or defended strategic and/or supervisory planning or organizational development policies and practices to external audiences; and chaired internal task forces or special committees.
 D. Served as organization's strategic planning, workforce planning and/or supervisory strategy representative or spokes person in adverse situations or when topic of discussion is not clearly defined; held employee forums or program conference and served as the key speaker; chaired strategic or supervisory planning and/or organizational development related interagency task forces/committees; and served on strategic workforce and/or supervisory planning and/or organizational development panels and/or at hearings to provide advice on technical or policy matters.
 E. I have no training or experience where I have communicated information related to strategic planning, workforce planning and/or supervisory strategy activities.
15. Select the response(s) that best describe your experience maintaining mutual relations with other regulatory agencies.
 A. Meeting with representatives from other agencies to discuss supervisory issues
 B. Coordinating examination activities
 C. Coordinating outreach or training activities
 D. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the only response selected for this item).
16. Which types of oral presentations have you delivered?
 A. Board meetings related to a 2-rated bank institution
 B. Board meetings related to a 2-rated bank institution with an enforcement action
 C. Board meetings related to a 3-rated bank institution with an enforcement action
 D. Instructor/presenter at regional training or meetings
 E. Instructor/presenter at national training or meetings
 F. Speaker at educational forums for bankers, community groups, or trade associations
 G. Briefed Regional or Washington senior management
 H. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the only response selected for this item).
17. Select the response that best describes your experience delivering oral presentations on your analysis of financial and/or regulatory issues to an audience.
 A. I have held a senior level position in the financial services industry or regulatory environment responsible for communicating orally the analysis of financial and/or regulatory problems to senior level internal and external constituents.
 B. I have held a mid-level position in the financial services industry or regulatory environment responsible for communicating orally the analysis of financial and/or regulatory problems to senior level internal and external constituents.
 C. I have experience communicating orally the analysis of general financial and/or regulatory issues to senior level internal and external constituents.
 D. I have no experience or training communicating orally the analysis of financial and/or regulatory issues to senior level internal and external constituents.
18. Select the response that best describes your experience summarizing in writing your analysis of financial and/or regulatory issues to an audience.
 A. I have held a senior level position in the financial services industry or regulatory environment responsible for summarizing in writing the analysis of highly complex financial and/or regulatory issues to senior level internal and external constituents.
 B. I have held a mid-level position in the financial services industry or regulatory environment responsible for summarizing in writing the analysis of highly complex financial and/or regulatory issues to senior level internal and external constituents.
 C. I have experience summarizing in writing the analysis of general financial and/or regulatory issues to senior level internal and external constituents.
 D. I have no experience or training in summarizing in writing the analysis of financial and/or regulatory issues to senior level internal and external constituents.
19. Select the following supervisory duties you have performed:
 A. Assigned work to team members based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capability of employees
 B. Planned work to be accomplished by subordinate members of work teams
 C. Set and adjusted priorities and prepared schedules for completion of work
 D. Evaluated work performance of subordinates or team members
 E. Interviewed candidates for positions in the unit; recommended appointment, promotion, or reassignment to such positions
 F. Identified development and training needs of employees based on organizational goals
 G. Provided advice, counsel or instruction to employees on administrative matters
 H. Effected minor disciplinary measures, such as warnings and reprimands, recommending other action in more serious cases
 I. Scheduled the work coverage of the unit, balancing leave and training absences
 J. Served as a coach or mentor to team/staff members on technical matters.
 K. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the only response selected for this item).
20. Which of the following best describes your experience in both leading or participating in work teams?
 A. I have led a financial institution regulatory work team or group in managing projects and/or initiatives characterized by more than one controversial issue, high-visibility, and of a broad scope (i.e., agency-wide or financial institution-wide) of application.
 B. I have led a work team in a large, midsize or community bank dealing with significant issues, visibility, and some controversy.
 C. I have participated on a work team or group on high profile or controversial projects.
 D. I have participated on a work team or group on a project of similar interest.
 E. I have no experience leading and participating on a work team or group.
21. Select the response that most accurately reflects your highest level of experience with respect to conflict management.
 A. I have no training or experience with respect to conflict management.
 B. I have training or experience with respect to conflict management but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have experience with conflict management, but it was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have experience with conflict management independently as a regular part of the job and without oversight by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert with conflict management. I have supervised performance of this task and is normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them when involved with conflict management.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
22. Your ratings in this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify or exaggerate your experience level may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency, if selected. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning; 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy; and 3) have verified that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability as reflected in your resume.

Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and are supported in my resume
No, I do not accept this agreement and I no longer wish to be considered for this position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
By clicking "Next" (below), I acknowledge that OCC ethics standards generally prohibit employees, their spouses, and minor children (as defined by state law) from holding securities, such as stocks and bonds, of banks, savings associations, or their affiliates, such as bank holding companies. If I am selected for and choose to accept this position, I understand that I, my spouse, and minor children will be expected to divest any securities prohibited by OCC ethics standards. 

 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected