Position Title
Network Intrusion Forensic Analyst
Agency
U.S. Secret Service
Announcement Number
INV-RS-12785354-25-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 5, 2025 to Thursday, September 11, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position and meet the ALL of the following? 
Located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; and
Applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice.
SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), that reflects all of the following:
Position, grade level (GS-15 or below), and duty location; and
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is "1" or "2" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34), or excepted service without time limit (Position Occupied is "2" in block 34) who is covered by a law providing both noncompetitive appointment eligibility to, and selection priority for, competitive service positions.
Any documentation from agency that shows current promotion potential; and
Latest performance appraisal including rating.
For more information, review Career Transition (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former Federal civilian employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm the following:  
Located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; and
Applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which will be or were separated; and
Applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which will be or were separated; and
Last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify eligibility, you must submit:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, notice of (proposed) removal for declining a directed geographic relocation outside the local commuting area (e.g., a directed reassignment or a change in duty station), notice of compensable work-related injury or illness termination and agency certification of inability to place, or notice of disability annuity termination; AND
SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), that reflects all of the following:
Position, grade level (GS-15 or below), and duty location; and
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is "1" or "2" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34), or excepted service without time limit (Position Occupied is "2" in block 34) who is covered by a law providing both noncompetitive appointment eligibility to, and selection priority for, competitive service positions.
Any documentation from agency that shows current promotion potential; AND
Latest performance appraisal including rating.
For more information, review Career Transition (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
12
13
Conditions of Employment
1. In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF-50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. If I receive a conditional offer of employment, I am willing to undergo a pre-employment drug screening.
 A. Yes
 B. No
All applicants must complete the following section. This section will be used to determine your ability and willingness to accept certain conditions of employment or meet certain requirements of the position. Please respond 'Yes' or 'No' to the following statements. Failure to respond to this section will result in an ineligible rating.
All applicants must undergo a comprehensive background investigation. The background investigation focuses on your honesty, reliability, police record, financial record, use of alcohol and drugs, mental health, and employment record. The background investigation includes interviews with your past and present employers, neighbors, teachers, and references, as well as checks of law enforcement, credit, educational, medical, and other records.
3. Recruiter ID Number: If you have one, please enter your recruiter's ID number. (Your recruiter would have supplied it to you). If you do not have one, please enter 0 (zero). (limit 7 characters)
Essay Questionnaire
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Network Intrusion Forensic Analyst position with the United States Secret Service. We will evaluate your resume and our responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
1. Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Network Intrusion Forensic Analyst at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes utilizing technical equipment software to conduct network intrusion investigations, digital forensics and mobile forensics to support criminal cases; providing computer forensic support to law enforcement investigations such as evidence seizure; data recovery and training; assisting in the identification and collection of digital and/or mobile evidence to used in support of a criminal investigation.
 B. My experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.
2. Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Network Intrusion Forensic Analyst at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes conducting computer forensic analysis or network forensic analysis and mobile device forensic analysis; providing computer forensic support to law enforcement investigations such as evidence seizure, data recovery, and training.
 B. My experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.
3. From the list below select the experience(s) you have defining, interpreting and implementing network or digital forensics policies.
 A. Investigative Methods
 B. Evidence Recovery
 C. Forensic Analysis - Computers
 D. Forensic Analysis – Mobile Devices
 E. Network Intrusion Investigations
 F. Cryptocurrency Investigations
 G. None of the above
4. From the list below select the statement that best describes your experience in recommending changes to or improvements of current program policies, procedures, or systems relating to cybercrime and digital forensics.
 A. I have no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have made informal recommendations to my first line supervisor for minor changes or improvements to current policies, procedures, or systems.
 C. I have made formal recommendations for changes or improvements which have streamlined or enhanced current policies, procedures, or systems.
 D. My recommendations have been adopted and have led to improvements in policies, procedures, or systems.
5. From the list below select your experience participating on a criminal investigative team.
 A. Participated as a team member, receiving task assignments and project goals from my supervisor or team leader.
 B. Served as a team leader, communicating task assignments and project goals to team members and monitoring their progress.
 C. None of the above
6. From the list below select the statements that describe the extent of your knowledge about the setup of a computer forensic laboratory or a network intrusion investigation response program including its program mission, goals, objectives, and support functions.
 A. Manages or leads an aspect of operational or support programs.
 B. Participates in the implementation of operational or support programs.
 C. Interacts with personnel to discuss, plan, and or evaluate the mission, goals, objectives, and support functions.
 D. Reviews publicly available documents and materials concerning mission, goals, objectives, and support functions.
 E. None of the above.
7. From the list below select the experience(s) you have as it relates to conducting computer forensic examinations.
 A. Performed stored electronic data analysis.
 B. Performed live data acquisition.
 C. Performed live Random Access Memory (RAM) acquisition.
 D. Performed live network data acquisition.
 E. Established and/or maintained a computer forensics lab/facility.
 F. Maintained a secure and centralized digital evidence storage network.
 G. Performed examinations in support of cryptocurrency investigations.
 H. None of the above
8. From the list below select the device(s) you have experience with performing forensic examinations.
 A. Cellular/Smart phones
 B. iOS based devices
 C. Android based devices
 D. GPS devices
 E. Skimmers and/or mag stripe encoder/reader devices
 F. None of the above
9. From the list below select the forensic analysis software tools in which you are proficient.
 A. Forensic Tool Kit (FTK)
 B. EnCase
 C. X-Ways
 D. Blacklight
 E. AXIOM
 F. iVE (Berla)
 G. Nuix
 H. None of the above
10. From the list below select the network intrusion forensics software tools in which you are proficient.
 A. Splunk
 B. Log2timeline
 C. Bulk Extractor
 D. Volatility
 E. Wireshark
 F. None of the above
11. From the list below select the experience you have obtained as it relates to digital forensics.
 A. Led and conducted investigations in digital forensics
 B. Evaluated investigations in digital forensics
 C. Documented investigations in digital forensics
 D. Shared digital forensics investigations information with law enforcement officials
 E. Shared digital forensics investigations information with attorneys and judges
 F. Shared digital forensics investigations information with management or senior level officials
 G. None of the above
12. From the list below select the types of documents pertaining to criminal or computer forensic analysis you have experience writing.
 A. Investigative manuals.
 B. Asset forfeiture policy.
 C. Standard operating procedures.
 D. Investigative analysis reports.
 E. Analysis of new regulations.
 F. Administrative rulings.
 G. Training requirements.
 H. Developing curricula.
 I. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
13. Have you led internal projects relating to digital or mobile device forensics, evaluated and documented the outcomes in order to share with staff, management and senior level officials?
 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Do you have experience providing technical support in drafting or obtaining search warrants in support of a criminal investigation?
 A. Yes
 B. No
15. From the list below select the following audiences with which you have experience communicating.
 A. Co-workers
 B. Direct supervisor
 C. Upper management
 D. Senior Agency or Department Leadership
 E. Professional community
 F. External entities (e.g., stakeholders, clients)
 G. Courtroom
 H. None of the above
16. From the list below select the types of venues you have participated in which demonstrate your public speaking ability.
 A. Workshops or training sessions
 B. Classroom instruction at an academic institution
 C. Internal lectures/presentations
 D. External lectures/presentations to other agencies, professional organizations, or academic institutions
 E. Participated in moot or mock court trial(s)
 F. Testified in a court of law or grand jury proceedings
 G. Successfully completed academic courses in public speaking
 H. None of the above
17. From the list below select the types of venues in which you have experience providing expert testimony.
 A. Federal court
 B. Military court
 C. International court
 D. State court
 E. Municipal court
 F. Juvenile court
 G. Grand jury proceedings
 H. Hearings/Depositions/Affidavits
 I. None of the above
18. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. a. Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected