Position Title
Supervisory Criminal Investigator (Special Agent in Charge)
Agency
Office of Inspector General
Announcement Number
25-HUD OIG-12799006 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 12, 2025 to Thursday, September 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency covered by an OPM Interchange agreement that conveys noncompetitive eligibility?

For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=InterchangeAgreementsWithOtherMeritSystems

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following merit promotion categories?
Current Federal civilian employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current Excepted service employee covered by an Interchange Agreement
Former Federal employee with Reinstatement eligibility
Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA)
Current Federal employee serving on a VRA appointment
Land Management Employee eligible under Public Law 114-47
Other competitive category not listed above (you must submit proof of eligibility)
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you eligible to be appointed under the Military Spouse Noncompetitive Appointing Authority based on any of the following categories?
You are the spouse of an active duty member of the Armed Forces.
You are the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs.
You are the widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status, and you have not re-married.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources. (https://www.usajobs.gov/Veterans)

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a former federal employee that has been separated for at least one full year and is eligible to be non-competitively reinstated to a higher grade or full-performance level than which you left federal employment?
(Note: you MUST provide:  1) a copy of your separation SF-50 (the "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2"); AND 2) the last performance appraisal you received from your federal employment which shows at least a fully successful rating.)

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Do you currently hold (or have you previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you eligible under any other miscellaneous appointing authority not listed thus far, such as (but not all inclusive to):
Postal Career Service Employee;
Postal Rate Commission Employee;
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; 
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee; or 
Foreign overseas employee or eligible family member of former overseas employee
 For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=MiscellaneousAuthoritiesNotRegulated .  To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

For more information on Foreign overseas employment please review the following: https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#NontemporaryForeignService or https://www.state.gov/global-community-liaison-office/family-member-employment/family-member-employment-in-the-d-c-area/non-competitive-eligibility-nce/#NCE5
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you eligible for consideration as a Peace Corps, VISTA, or Action volunteer?  If you select this option, you are required to provide acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility by submitting proof of employment from the appropriate agency with your completed application.
National Service (Peace Corps and VISTA)

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

 A. Yes
 B. No
12.

Incumbents selected for Criminal Investigator positions are covered under special law enforcement provisions. This requires that applicants not exceed the maximum age for entry. The date immediately preceding an applicants 37th birthday is the final date for selection. The age restriction does not apply if you served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement officer (FLEO) position covered by special civil service retirement provisions, including early or mandatory retirement.

If you are not subject to the age restriction because you have previously served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement officer (FLEO) position as described above, you must submit an SF 50 (or equivalent documentation) showing service in a covered civilian law enforcement. OR If you are not subject to the age restriction because you are a preference eligible veteran, you must submit appropriate veterans documentation to establish that you are eligible for veteran's preference in order to waive the age requirements for this position.

Will you have reached your 37th birthday by the closing date of this announcement?

 A. I will NOT have reached my 37th birthday by the close of this announcement.
 B. I am not subject to the age restriction because I served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement officer (FLEO) position as described above.
 C. I am a preference eligible veteran and am not subject to the requirements above.
 D. I will be 37 or older by the close date of this announcement. I am not a preference eligible veteran and have not previously served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement (FLEO) position.
13.

Medical Requirements: The selectee must pass a pre-appointment physical examination and meet the physical requirements for this position as required by this agency. The duties of this position require moderate to arduous physical exertion involving walking and standing, use of firearms, and exposure to inclement weather. Manual dexterity with comparatively free motion of finger, wrist, elbow, shoulder, hip, and knee joints is required. Arms, hands, legs, and feet must be sufficiently intact and functioning in order that applicants may perform the duties satisfactorily. Sufficiently good vision and hearing are required to perform the duties satisfactorily. Because the duties of this position are exacting, responsible, and sometimes performed under trying conditions, the selectee must possess emotional and mental stability. Any physical condition that would cause the selectee to be a hazard to himself/herself, or others is disqualifying.

Do you meet the physical requirements as described above?

 A. Yes, I possess the requirements listed above.
 B. I do not possess the requirements listed above.
Preferences
1. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
3. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
5. If selected, you will need to report to one of the following duty locations:(Please choose up to 3 of these duty locations that you would be interested in if selected.)

 A. Washington, DC
 B. Philadelphia, PA
 C. Boston, MA
 D. Buffalo, NY
 E. Cleveland, OH
 F. Columbus, OH
 G. Hartford, CT
 H. New York, NY
 I. Newark, NJ
 J. Pittsburgh, PA
 K. Kansas City, KS
 L. Denver, CO
 M. Chicago, IL
 N. Detroit, MI
 O. Indianapolis, IN
 P. St Louis, MO
 Q. Atlanta, GA
 R. Baltimore, MD
 S. Baton Rouge, LA
 T. Birmingham, AL
 U. Miami, FL
 V. New Orleans, LA
 W. Richmond, VA
 X. San Juan, PR
 Y. Tampa, FL
 Z. Houston, TX
 AA. Ft Worth, TX
 AB. Los Angeles, CA
 AC. Phoenix, AZ
Performance Appraisal
1.

As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal that includes the final rating, dated within the last year. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these specific requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so. If you fail to provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration. Type "yes" in the text box below if you are providing a performance appraisal meeting the above requirements with your application. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application meeting the requirement, please provide a reason in the text box below. ("N/A" is not considered an acceptable response).

Assessment 1
You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as:

- Planning, directing and coordinating criminal investigations; AND
- Providing direction and guidance to subordinate staff on complex and sensitive criminal investigations.
1. Select the answer that best describes your experience as it directly relates to the specialized experience statement. Carefully review your application and ensure that your response is supported by your resume.
 A. I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-14 level as described above.
 B. I do not have one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.
2. This experience must be clearly documented in your resume, indicate where we can find it to ensure you receive proper credit. (limit 250 characters)
3. Select all the duties listed below that reflect your leadership/supervisory experience coordinating criminal investigations.
 A. I have experience training criminal investigators
 B. I have experience reviewing finished work for accuracy and completeness.
 C. I have experience providing feedback to team members on their performance.
 D. I have experience resolving differences among co-workers or team members.
 E. I have experience leading investigation teams that included auditors and analysts as well as investigators.
 F. I have experience leading investigation teams that included digital forensic experts.
 G. I have experience leading support teams that included information technology specialists.
 H. I have experience giving advice on problem situations that are highly technical in nature.
 I. I have experience leading support teams that give advice on problem situations that are highly technical in nature.
 J. I have experience implementing new policies and procedures.
 K. I have no experience performing this task.
4. Select all the law enforcement activities with which you have leadership experience.
 A. Making arrests.
 B. Conducting physical surveillance.
 C. Conducting consensual monitoring or other electronic surveillance.
 D. Drafting affidavits in support of arrest or search warrants, or criminal complaints.
 E. Performing interrogations.
 F. Conducting execution of search warrants.
 G. Participating in protection details.
 H. Conducting undercover operations.
 I. Conducting operations using confidential informants.
 J. Drafting and serving Inspector General subpoenas.
 K. Conducting employee misconduct investigations.
 L. Conducting fraud investigations.
 M. Conducting bribery or public corruption investigations.
 N. Conducting investigations in which the subject is a high-ranking agency official.
 O. Conducting investigations in which Title III wiretaps are utilized
 P. Testifying in court and/or administrative hearings.
 Q. Conducting investigations with large data sets and applied data analytics.
 R. I have no experience performing this task.
5. Select all the verbal communication activities that you have routinely performed in your employment.
 A. Conducting law enforcement interviews.
 B. Presenting investigative findings to Assistant U.S. Attorneys.
 C. Presenting investigative status and other investigative matters to senior agency officials.
 D. Presenting information persuasively to defend unpopular positions.
 E. Providing oral training presentations.
 F. Orally providing information to the news media.
 G. Providing operational briefings to other members of a task force or raid team.
 H. Providing advice, guidance or direction to investigators of lower grades on regulations or procedures.
 I. Successfully negotiating for the acceptance of new policies and/or procedures.
 J. Serving as mediator in discussions between varying groups or individuals with opposing opinions and/or goals.
 K. Negotiating budget proposals.
 L. I have no experience performing this task.
6. Select all the written products below that you have experience writing.
 A. Memoranda of Investigative Activities.
 B. Reports of Investigation.
 C. Investigative work plans.
 D. Administrative reports to management.
 E. Proposals for undercover, surveillance, arrest or search warrant operations.
 F. Congressional briefing or reporting material
 G. Budget proposals or justifications.
 H. Press releases or public bulletins.
 I. Employee position descriptions.
 J. Policy and procedures.
 K. Project/Program planning proposals
 L. Training presentations and other training material.
 M. Strategic Plans, GPRA goals and/or other strategic measurements.
 N. I have no experience performing this task.
7. Choose the statement that best describes your ability to manage and coordinate the efforts of a multi-agency investigative team.
 A. I have no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have provided limited guidance, suggestions, or recommendations in managing an investigative team, but not in the capacity of a team lead.
 C. I have served in an acting capacity or as an investigative team lead to resolve complex or non-routine problems, questions, or complaints.
 D. I have managed complete investigations or portions of large and complex or non-routine investigations Agency-wide or cross bureau lines
8. Select all the statements that best describe your experience working with other law enforcement agencies.
 A. Conducting joint investigations with other federal law enforcement agencies.
 B. Conducting joint investigations with state or local law enforcement agencies.
 C. Serving as a formal agency liaison to another agency or organization.
 D. Served as a member of a federal task force.
 E. None of the above.
9. Select the response that best describes your experience of OIG operations or related investigative experience.
 A. I do not have any experience of OIG operations or related investigated experience.
 B. I have criminal investigative experience with an OIG operation, another office, or equivalent.
 C. I have experience working in an OIG operation or have law enforcement operations experience with another office or equivalent.
 D. I have directly related experience gained in an OIG operation, or experience with the FBI, Police Department, or equivalent
10. I have acted as a lead on a regular and recurring basis in major joint investigative activities with other Federal, State, and local agencies.
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. I have demonstrated experience using Title 18, the U.S. Criminal code.
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. I have experience conducting fraud investigations affecting HUD programs and operations.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected