Position Title
Fitness Coordinator
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
WF25-12788606 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 2, 2025 to Sunday, September 7, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1. Do you currently hold an NCAA-approved fitness certification, along with valid CPR, First Aid, and AED certifications?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 45 pounds.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current NAS WHITING FIELD NAF employee?

*If you answer yes to this question, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Personnel Action Report (PAR/SF-50) showing your status as a NAS WHITING FIELD employee. Failure to provide documentation to support your claim may result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment.  This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for this position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
1. The Fitness Program Manager is a supervisory position responsible for development and oversight of fitness programming. While elements (a) through (c) are preferred, a combination of two of these elements may sufficiently qualify an individual to perform their duties as program director:

a) a four-year degree in exercise science or a related field for civilian personnel;
b) professional certification by an accredited health/fitness organization (If qualifying based on this element, a current certification must be uploaded in order to be considered.); and
c) at least three years of experience in the fitness industry/field for civilian personnel.


 A. Yes, I possess all three elements as stated above and my resume reflects the required experience, and I have attached proof of current certification.
 B. Yes, I possess at least two of the three elements as stated above and my resume reflects the required experience and/or I have attached proof of current certification.
 C. No, I currently only possess one element of the three listed as described above.
 D. No, I do not possess any of the required experience and/or professional certifications.
2. Do you currently possess a valid Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) and First Aid Certification?  (If yes, copy must be uploaded in order to receive credit)
 A. Yes, I do currently have a valid CPR and First Aid Certificate, and I have uploaded a copy.
 B. No, I do not currently have a valid CPR and First Aid Certificate, but I am willing to obtain it within the first six (6) months of employment.
 C. No, I do not currently have a valid CPR and First Aid Certificate, nor am I willing to obtain during my employment.
3. My working knowledge and experience of applying a wide range of fitness principles, concepts and techniques that govern physical fitness programs can best be described as the following:

Fitness principles include but are not limited to experience in exercise science, strength conditioning, nutrition, weight loss/control, cardiovascular endurance, exercise requirements and projected results.
 A. I have no working knowledge/experience with the above-mentioned duties.
 B. I have less than one (1) year of working knowledge/experience with the above-mentioned duties within the fitness industry.
 C. I have between one (1) and three (3) years of working knowledge/experience with the above-mentioned duties within the DOD or other federal agencies.
 D. I have between one (1) and three (3) years of working knowledge/experience with the above-mentioned duties outside of the DOD or other federal agencies.
 E. I have between three (3) and five (5) years of working knowledge/experience with the above-mentioned duties within the DOD or other federal agencies.
 F. I have between three (3) and five (5) years of working knowledge/experience with the above-mentioned duties outside of the DOD or other federal agencies.
 G. I have more than five (5) years of working knowledge/experience with the above-mentioned duties within the DOD or other Federal agencies.
 H. I have more than five (5) years of working knowledge/experience with the above-mentioned duties outside of the DOD or other federal agencies.
4. How many years of experience do you possess in performing a full range of supervisory duties? 

Supervisory duties include, but are not limited to directly supervising staff members, completing hiring actions, taking appropriate disciplinary actions, coaching and developing staff members, conducting annual staff performance reviews assigning work based on priorities and supporting EEO policies that foster positive work environments. 

 A. I do not possess experience with performing a full range of supervisory duties.
 B. I possess less than one (1) year experience with performing a full range of supervisory duties.
 C. I possess between one (1) and three (3) years of experience with performing a full range of supervisory duties.
 D. I possess between three (3) and five (5) years of experience with performing a full range of supervisory duties.
 E. I possess more than five (5) years of experience with performing a full range of supervisory duties.
5. My experience with budgeting processes including the ability to prepare a budget in accordance with program goals, policies and guidance is best described as:
 A. I possess more than five (5) years of experience with the above duties.
 B. I possess between three (3) and five (5) years of experience with the above duties.
 C. I possess between one (1) and three (3) years of experience with the above duties.
 D. I possess less than one (1) year of experience with the above duties.
 E. I do not possess experience with the above duties.
6. My documented experience developing and adapting new methods, approaches and procedures for the most effective management of a fitness program can best be described as:
 A. I possess no documented experience with the above duties.
 B. I possess less than two (2) years of experience with the above duties.
 C. I possess between two (2) and four (4) years of experience with the above duties.
 D. I possess more than four (4) years of experience with the above duties.
7. My documented experience in planning and executing a comprehensive fitness, aquatics and/or sports program that includes a variety of fitness and aquatics activities and individual and team sports can best be described as:
 A. I do not possess experience in planning and executing fitness programs as described above.
 B. I possess less than two (2) years of experience in planning and executing fitness programs as described above.
 C. I possess between two (2) and four (4) years of experience in planning and executing fitness programs as described above.
 D. I possess more than four (4) years of experience in planning and executing fitness programs as described above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected