Position Title
Assistant Pressperson
Agency
Bureau of Engraving and Printing
Announcement Number
26-BEP-12810050-A Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 8, 2025 to Wednesday, October 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current Bureau of Engraving and Printing employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current BEP employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current BEP employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current BEP employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions and you:

• recently separated (within the past 3 years)
• are a disabled veteran
• served on active duty during a war, campaign or expedition OR
• received an Armed Forces Service Medal

If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. If claiming disability preference, provide the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal (i.e. final annual performance appraisal issued and signed by appropriate management official) dated within the last 18 months. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these specific requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so. If you fail to provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration. NOTE: If you are wanting to be considered for non competitive reinstatement a performance appraisal document MUST be submitted to be eligible. Type "yes" in the text box below if you are providing a performance appraisal meeting the above requirements with your application. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application meeting the requirement, please provide a reason in the text box below. ("N/A" is not considered an acceptable response).


4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


5.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


6.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


7.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


8.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Choose the statement that best describes the supervision received while you perform your work.
 I have experience working in a printing plant environment without direct supervision. I perform recurring tasks that require me to make frequent changes.
 I have experience working in a printing plant environment without direct supervision on recurring tasks. All unusual situations are referred to a supervisor.
 I have experience working in a printing plant environment under the close direction of a supervisor.
 None of the above.


2.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties. We must be able to verify this experience in your resume in order for you to receive credit.


3.
Select ALL of the following in which you have experience operating.
 A. Large format 32 or larger Printing Press
 B. Bindery Equipment (folder, cutter)
 C. Packaging Equipment (Stackers, Joggers)
 D. Power Trucks/Forklifts / Hand Truck
 E. None of the above


4.
As a part of any job, select ALL of the following you have done.
 A. Computer Controlled equipment
 B. Monitor consistency of cutting, banding packaging system and notifying the necessary personnel of irregularities
 C. 32" or larger Roll Tender or Feeder Operator
 D. None of the above


5.
From the following list, select all of the equipment you have experience with.
 A. Densitometry devices, Spectrophotometry devices
 B. Image placement measurement equipment
 C. Computerized accountability system
 D. None of the above


6.
Select all of the tasks you have experience performing on the job.
 A. Correcting machine malfunctions, making adjustments related to mechanical registration.
 B. Referencing International Standard Operating (ISO) documents.
 C. As a team member, I made suggestions about adjustments related to print quality.
 D. None of the above


7.
Select ALL of the processes below in which you have experience.
 A. Working in a team environment with machinery to ensure smooth consistent flow.
 B. Working as a part of a team monitoring processes on complex machinery to ensure adequate performance.
 C. Working as part of a team monitoring expendable levels and replenishing as needed to ensure constant operation.
 D. Monitoring and counting finished products.
 E. None of the above


8.
Please select the response below that best describes your experience interpreting instructions.
 I have experience adjusting to frequent changes in specifications and/or instructions.
 I have experience interpreting instructions, and specifications in a team-based environment.
 I have experience following directions as presented.
 None of the above


9.
From the list below, select all that you have experience with receiving work direction.
 A. Hand written instruction
 B. Oral communication
 C. Email or other typed instruction
 D. None of the above


10.
Select the statement that best describes your experience in following technical procedures.
 I have experience prioritizing and carrying out multiple tasks concerning complex technical instructions in a timely manner to optimize job performance.
 I have experience carrying out complex technical instructions in a timely manner.
 I have experience carrying out technical instruction immediately to perform simple tasks.
 I have experience carrying out single instructions after it is carefully explained.
 None of the above


11.
Select all the type(s) of instructions or directions you have had to follow on the job.
 A. Manuals
 B. Training guides
 C. On-line instructions
 D. Directions from training videos
 E. None of the above


12.
Select the following statement that best describes your ability to handle multiple tasks.
 I usually perform one task at a time and do not begin another until I am completely finished.
 I usually perform one or two tasks at a time and do not begin another until I am completely finished.
 I usually work several tasks simultaneously with many of the tasks having different completion times.
 None of the above.


13.
Select the following statement that best describes your experience using tools in maintaining equipment as prescribed by manufacturer specifications?
 I have extensive experience maintaining equipment to manufacturer specifications.
 I have extensive experience maintaining equipment.
 I have experience maintaining equipment.
 I have knowledge of maintaining equipment.
 I have no experience maintaining equipment.


14.
Choose all of the following tools you have used to maintain equipment or machinery.
 A. Measuring devices digital rulers, micrometer, calipers
 B. Chemicals for cleaning
 C. Lubricating tools
 D. Common hand tools (Wrenches, Ratchets, Sockets etc.)
 E. None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙