Position Title
Senior Counsel
Agency
Offices, Boards and Divisions
Announcement Number
OLC-25-12751020-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, June 18, 2025 to Wednesday, July 9, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you an attorney who is an active member of the bar and in good standing?

All Senior Level Department attorney positions are excepted from the competitive service (also known as "excepted service positions") and classified as "Schedule A" positions. Unless otherwise specified by law or regulation, appointments in the excepted service are made in accordance with such practices as the Attorney General or delegee finds necessary.

To be considered under this eligibility, you must possess a J.D. degree or equivalent from a law school accredited by the American Bar Association and be an active member of the bar in good standing in a state, U.S. territory, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.

Additionally, you must meet all the requirements of the position as stated in the vacancy announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or Non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF-50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President with or without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A noncareer SES appointee serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 A. Yes, I have held one of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 B. No, I have not held any of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 C. I am uncertain if I have held any of these appointment types in the last 5 years.
2. You will be required to complete a pre-employment security investigation and background check which includes a drug screening. Do you accept this condition?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Selective Service registration is required for males born on, or after, December 31st 1959. Those not registered must submit an approved exemption. Please select the response that best fits how you meet this condition of employment. Please click here (https://www.sss.gov/faq/#who-needs-to-register) to learn more about who needs to register.
 A. I am a male born on, or after, December 31st 1959, and have registered for the Selective Service System.
 B. I am a male born before December 31st 1959, and am not required to registered for the Selective Service System.
 C. I am a male born on, or after, December 31st 1959, and have not registered for the Selective Service System, but have a valid approved exemption. (Documentation must be submitted with your application.)
 D. I am not a male and am not required to register.
 E. I am a male born on, or after, December 31st 1959, and have not yet registered for the Selective Service System.
4. If selected, you will be required to disclose financial information on a SF-278 (Public Financial Disclosure Form) in accordance with DOJ and Federal ethics guidelines. Do you agree to this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. As a basic requirement for entry into the SES, applicants must provide evidence of progressively responsible leadership experience that is indicative of senior executive level management capability and directly related to the skills and abilities outlined under the Mandatory Technical Qualifications (MTQ) and Executive Core Qualifications (ECQs).

Are MTQs and ECQs documented on your resume?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. You may be required to complete a 1-year probationary period, effective on the date in which you are appointed. Do you accept this condition of employment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected