Position Title
Supervisory Contract Specialist
Agency
Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers
Announcement Number
FLETC-MRSD/PRO-26-12821505 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, October 28, 2025 to Friday, November 7, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently employed as a Federal civilian employee with the Department of Homeland Security who has held or currently holds, a permanent competitive service position in the federal government with equal or higher promotion potential as this position?

To verify your eligibility as a current DHS employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status.

Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1), or, your status is in the excepted service (Position Occupied field is 2) and you are eligible under a valid interchange agreement.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a currently employed as a Federal civilian employee with the Department of Homeland Security in the Competitive Service?

To verify your eligibility as a current DHS employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status.

Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1) or, your status is in the excepted service (Position Occupied field is 2) and you are eligible under a valid interchange agreement.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


FLETC Data
1.

Are you applying for a promotion? It is a promotion if you are applying for a general schedule (GS) position that is higher than the grade level you currently hold or previously held in the past. To be considered for a promotion, you must provide SF-50(s) that shows that you have held the next lower GS grade for at least one year. SF-50s that have an effective date within the past year (e.g., General Adjustment SF-50 from this year or Within Rate/Grade Increases (WRI/WGI) SF-50 within a year) do not clearly show that you meet the one-year time-in-grade requirement. That means if you submit an SF-50 that is dated within the last year, you must submit another SF-50 that is dated more than one year ago to clearly demonstrate you meet the time-in-grade requirements.

 Yes, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a promotion. I have submitted one or two SF-50(s) that show I have held the next lower GS grade or equivalent (non-GS pay system) for at least one year.
 No, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a GS grade that I currently hold or have held in the past. I have submitted an SF-50 to support this claim.
 Yes, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a promotion but I have not held the next lower grade or equivalent (non-GS pay system) for at least one year. I was recently promoted to my current grade level within the last year so I do not meet the time-in-grade requirements for promotion.
 No, I am not a GS employee and I have not been a GS employee within the last year (e.g. I am in a pay band, or I am an FWS employee, or I have never worked for the federal government) so this is not applicable to me.


2.
How did you learn about this Department of Homeland Security (DHS) job opportunity announcement?
Career Fair
Met a FLETC representative at a recruitment event
Magazine
Newspaper
Radio
TV
Poster
Private Employment Office
State Employment Office (Unemployment Office)
Agency Human Resources Development (bulletin board or other announcement)
Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college
Federal, state, or local Job Information Center
Religious organization
College, university, or career placement counselor
Friend or relative working for this agency
Friend or relative not working for this agency
USAJOBS
Professional Association
Publication
Conference
College Event
Private information service
LinkedIn
Other


3.
Select the rating level you received, as applicable to your agency's performance management system, for your last performance appraisal. Please provide a copy of your last performance appraisal.
 Outstanding | Achieved Excellence
 Exceeds Fully Successful/Highly Successful | Exceeded Expectations
 Fully Successful/Pass | Achieved Expectations
 Minimally Satisfactory/Minimally Acceptable
 Unacceptable/Fail
 None of the above


4.
Select the types of awards you have received within the last three years.
 A. Quality Step Increase
 B. Special Act or Time Off Award
 C. Performance Award
 D. Honorary Award
 E. Letter of Commendation
 F. None of the above


5.
List any education and/or training related to this position (do not provide copies of certificates).


6.
I have thoroughly reviewed the 'How to Apply/Required Documents' & 'Qualifications' sections of this Vacancy Announcement to determine which supplemental documents to submit. This may include: Transcripts to verify undergraduate/graduate education; A Current/Non-Award SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, noting current position title, series, grade, position occupied, tenure, highest salary (including basic pay) and duty location if I am a current/former Federal employee; DD-214 if I am a veteran (and SF-15/VA Letter if applicable), etc. I understand that failure to fax or upload required documents by the vacancy announcement's closing date may result in loss of consideration. Answer to this question is required.
 Yes
 No


7.
The Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers does not recognize academic degrees (including any coursework leading to a degree) from schools that are not accredited by an accrediting institution recognized by the Department of Education. Any applicant falsely claiming an academic degree from an accredited school will be subject to actions ranging from disqualification from federal employment to removal from federal service. Please review the following link to determine your school's accreditation status: Accreditation: Postsecondary Education Institutions | U.S. Department of Education.
 I certify that my academic degree (or degrees) is from a college or university accredited by an accrediting institution recognized by the Department of Education.
 I have an academic degree (or degrees) from a college or university that is NOT accredited by an accrediting institution recognized by the Department of Education.
 I do not have an academic degree.


8.
You must submit a copy of your college transcript (unofficial is acceptable) from an accredited institution listing the college/university, degree confirmation date(s) and applicable courses for the position you are applying to.

If selected, applicants must provide an official college transcript prior to appointment.

I have submitted a copy of my transcript with all required information.
 Yes
 No


9.
Did you accept a lump sum payment from the government through a workforce transition program such as the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP), Voluntary Early Retirement Authority (VERA), and/ or Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) before September 30th, 2025?
 Yes, I accepted a lump sum pay out from a workforce transition program.
 Yes, I accepted the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) only.
 No, I did not participate in either program.


10.
I am willing and able to possess and maintain a valid state-issued driver's license to conduct official government business.
 Yes
 No


11.
I am willing and able to complete an OGE 450, Confidential Financial Disclosure Report, within 30 days of starting federal employment.
 Yes
 No


Application Instructions
1.
Please limit your resume to 2 pages. If more than 2 pages are submitted, you may not be considered for any position. DO NOT submit more than one resume, if you do, we will only review the resume with the latest time stamp on it.
Please ensure your resume does not have any photographs, social media links (ex. LinkedIn, Facebook, etc.) or Sensitive Personally identifiable information (SPII) such as social security numbers on it or you may not be considered for this position. 
When uploading documentation to your application, please ensure that if you have multiple documents of the same kind, that you combine them into one, (e.g. if you have multiple SF-50s, you will need to combine them into one PDF file and then upload under the SF-50 folder.
Please make sure you upload your documents in the correct folder. The only documents we will accept for this vacancy is what you will see in the drop-down menu. 
You can make as many changes as you would like to your entire application BEFORE the announcement closes. No exceptions. 
If you have any issues with your application, please contact the Point of Contact listed at the bottom of the announcement, BEFORE the closing date. 
 I have read the above statement and understand the instructions for my application.
 I have read the above statement and DO not understand the instructions for my application and will reach out to the Point of Contact for the vacancy before the announcement closes.


Assessment 1
Please ensure you resume reflects your responses below and you must upload any and all transcripts and copies of certificates with your application.


1.
To be eligible for this position you must be a current competitive service career or career-conditional employee of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) or claiming special priority selection rights under the Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP). From the descriptions below, select the statement that most clearly and accurately describes your current status. You MUST submit the appropriate paperwork for verification, please refer to what is required in the announcement.
 I am a CURRENT COMPETITIVE service career or CAREER CONDITIONAL employee of the DHS. (You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50 that indicates your tenure group, grade, and salary (including basic).
 I am claiming special priority selection rights under the Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP)? (You must submit copies of your agency notice; most recent performance rating; and your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action noting your current position, grade level, and duty location).
 I am NOT either one of the area of considerations listed above and understand that I will not be considered for the position.


2.
In order to be considered for this position you must meet position requirements for a FAC-C (Professional), DoD Contracting Professional, or DAWIA (Contracting) Level I or higher certification. Select the statement that best describes your FAC-C certification. You must upload a copy of your certificate with your application.
 I have FAC-C Professional certification and have provided a copy of my certificate.
 I have DoD Contracting Professional certification and have provided a copy of my certificate.
 I have DAWIA (Contracting) Level 1 certification or higher and have provided a copy of my certificate.
 I do not have any certifications as listed above.


3.
Basic Requirements for the GS 13 and Above: Select the statement that best describes your experience and/or education as it pertains to the Individual Occupational Requirements for this Contracting Series GS-1102-13 position.
 Completion of all mandatory training prescribed by the head of the agency for progression to GS-13 or higher-level contracting positions, including at least 4-years' experience in contracting or related positions. At least 1 year of that experience must have been specialized experience at or equivalent to work at the next lower level of the position, and must have provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the work of the position. -AND- A 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree, that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. Must upload all transcripts.
 Exceptions: Employees in GS-1102 positions will be considered to have met the standard for positions they occupy on January 1, 2000. This also applies to positions at the same grade in the same agency or other agencies if the specialized experience requirements are met. However, they will have to meet the basic requirements and specialized experience requirements in order to qualify for promotion to a higher grade. You must provide and SF 50 showing you occupied your position on or before January 1, 2000.
 None of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Specialized Experience Requirement: Do you have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 level in the federal service utilizing federal contracting law, regulations, policies and precedents, related principles, policies and procedures to plan, lead, review, or audit non-complex to complex procurement functions AND reviewing incoming procurement requests, letters, proposals, both unsolicited and solicited, quotations, bids, and other correspondences for general content.
 Yes
 No


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, ALL of the information provided on this application is true, accurate, and complete, and that this application for employment is made in good faith. I understand that a false statement on any part of this application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that I may be punished by fine or imprisonment for falsification of my employment application (18 USC 1001). I understand that information I give may be investigated as allowed by law or Executive order. Do you understand and agree to all the above?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙