Position Title
Health Technician - Audiology
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-12793204-25-AM-FOXTROT Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 5, 2025 to Wednesday, September 10, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. Your application package will be reviewed to verify answers. Please ensure your resume clearly reflects specific details of experience, lists complete dates of employment, and indicates if the employment was part time (list hours per week) or Full time to properly credit your experience. Resume/CV required Resume: Your resume should include the following information for each job that you list: Job title; Complete Workplace Addresses; Duties (be as detailed as possible); Month and year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008); Full-time, part-time status (include hours worked per week). Example: Win Dixie Stores, Cashier, 1234 Anywhere USA3/10/2020-5/20/2022 Full time I was responsible for and completed tasks that included running cash register, greeted guests, stocked shelves, anti-theft prevention, customer service, cash drops, and store clean up. Helpful training links: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-XeSxzezvY8 (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-XeSxzezvY8) Applying to federal jobs and how it works https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HY5Z_pfFUK4 (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HY5Z_pfFUK4) Looking for jobs and applying to Fed jobs https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1-fYgeDJpYI (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1-fYgeDJpYI) The Federal Employment Process: Resources and Frequently Asked
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. To be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C., chapter 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA, applicants must be proficient in written and spoken English. Are you proficient in spoken and written English?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Basic Requirements - Experience & Education

Do you possess- 

Experience. Six months of experience comparable to the next lower level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities related to the duties of the position to be filled. 

OR

Education. Successful completion of two academic years above high school leading to an associate degree or a bachelor's degree with at least 12 semester hours in courses related to the position.
 
OR

Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of experience and education are qualifying. Examples are listed below:
 An example of a combination of experience/education is three months of experience comparable to the next lower level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities related to the duties of the position to be filled and one year above high school with a minimum of 6 semester hours related to the health care industry.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Please indicate how you meet the Education/Experience requirement as described above, and ensure proof is provided in your application.
Please list the type of education and year conferred.

4. Specialized Experience

Do you have one year of progressive experience and/or experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-6)* directly related to the position being filled

*Example of experience at the next lower grade level include but not limited to; Knowledge of normal and abnormal ear anatomy; Knowledge of hearing physiology and function to educate patients and families; Knowledge of hearing aids, hearing assistive technology, hearing aid manufacturers and manufacturer software; Ability to solve problems or make decisions regarding hearing aid, hearing assistive technology and patient care, consistent with the documented and co-signed plan of care under the supervision of an audiologist; Ability to prepare patients for testing procedures; Ability to document and code patient procedures.

AND

In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSA(s)
(a) Ability to mentor and train new HTAs.
(b) Ability to prepare patients for advanced testing procedures performed by the audiologist, such as evoked potentials.
(c) Ability to develop and implement the technician role for a program in a focused area of audiology.


For all assignments above the full performance level, the higher-level duties must consist of significant scope, administrative independence, complexity and range of variety as described in this standard at the specified grade level and be performed by the incumbent at least 25% of the time. The HTA at this level works under supervision and direction of a licensed audiologist. Assignments associated with this position include, but are not limited to: completing adjustments to hearing aid settings as outlined in the audiologist's plan of care, preparing patients for advanced diagnostic procedures such as evoked potentials and 12 collaborating with audiology team to develop training programs for patients and staff.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected