Position Title
Medical Supply Tech -Sterile Processing Coordinator
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSU-12809848-26-MV Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 3, 2025 to Friday, October 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the  Lead Medical Supply Technician (Sterile Processing) Coordinator, GS-622-7 position with the Veterans Health Administration. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.


Basic Requirements


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: MSTs must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3j, this part.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Experience and/or Education Requirement. Applicants must meet one of the following options below to meet this requirement. 

(1) Experience. Six months of experience that demonstrates the applicant's ability to perform the work or provides an understanding of the work;

OR 

(2) Education. One year above high school that included at least 6 semester hours in health care related courses such as sterile processing, nursing assistant, hospital corpsman, and operating room and surgical technician courses or other courses related to the position; (TRANSCRIPTS ARE REQUIRED IF SELECTING THIS OPTION)

OR 

(3) Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combination of experience and education are  qualifying for entry level for which both education and experience are acceptable. (TRANSCRIPTS ARE REQUIRED IF SELECTING THIS OPTION)

OR

(4) Foreign Education. To be creditable, education completed outside the U.S. must have been submitted to a private organization that specializes in the interpretation of foreign educational credentials and such education must have been deemed at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U. S. programs. (TRANSCRIPTS  AND EDUCATION EQUALIVENCY ARE REQUIRED IF SELECTING THIS OPTION)

Select the appropriate answer based on your level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.
 Yes, I have six (6) months of experience that demonstrates my understanding or ability to perform the work of a Medical Supply Technician (Sterile Processing)
 Yes, I have one (1) year of education above high school in health care related courses such as sterile processing, nursing assistant, hospital corpsman, and operating room and surgical technician courses or other courses related to the position. I have provided my transcripts to demonstrate I meet this requirement.
 Yes, I have a combination of experience (described in option A of this question) and education (described in option B of this question). I have provided my transcripts to demonstrate I meet this requirement
 Yes, I meet the foreign education requirement and have provided my transcripts and equivalency
 No, I do not have the experience and/or education described above


GRADE SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Experience:
GS-07 Medical Supply Technician (Sterile Processing) - Coordinator

Experience Requirement: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, do you possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-6)? Examples of specialized experience include but are not limited to: Receiving contaminated critical and semi-critical RME in the decontamination area; disassembling the RME and determining the correct cleaning method, such as but not limited to ultrasonic cleaners, mechanical washers, cart washers and chemical cleaning/decontamination agents, as determined by manufacturer instructions; inspecting, assembling and determining the correct method and packaging for sterilization such as but not limited to steam, Sterrad, Steris, ETO, and high level disinfecting scope reprocessors; performing and documenting daily operational checks and records for all sterilization equipment.

Do you have the one year of experience at the GS-06 level as described above? 


 Yes
 No


4.
Knowledge Skills and Abilities (KSAs)
GS-07 Medical Supply Technician (Sterile Processing) - Coordinator

In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
1. Practical knowledge of conventional fact-finding or investigative techniques in order to evaluate internal work processes.
2. Skill to develop, analyze and evaluate facts relative to unsatisfactory conditions or trends.
3. Knowledge of and skill in applying various methods and techniques for investigating, analyzing and recommending corrective action on complex quality problems.
4. Knowledge of the SPS policies and procedural manuals, infection control procedures, and accrediting agencies and quality assurance guidelines to assure appropriateness of work during quality assurance reviews.
5. Working knowledge of Microsoft Word, Excel and other software programs.
6. Thorough knowledge of aseptic principles and techniques, which include sterilized operations, sterilizer mediums, and tests to determine the effectiveness of sterilization, packaging, storage, and shelf life.
7. Ability to communicate orally and in writing to ensure staff compliance with written directives, rules and regulations


Do you meet ALL of the above KSA's?


 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title and  Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

SF-50 REMINDER- If you are a current federal employee, or a former employee with reinstatement rights, you MUST submit a copy of your most recent SF-50  or your separation/ resignation SF-50.  This SF-50 needs to  show your current or last grade, step, wage, and title. Please do not submit a bonus or award SF-50.  A promotion, General wage adjudication, Step- progression or a separation SF-50 are the preferred SF-50's.  Your federal employment status cannot be verified without this document and you will be disqualified for not meeting the area of consideration if you do not provide the documentation.

TRANSCRIPTS REMINDER- If you are claiming education; combo of education and experience, or foreign education for meeting basic requirements you must provide a transcript.   Please provide a copy  official transcripts and certification to demonstrate you meet the basic requirements of the position posted.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙