Position Title
Supervisory Contract Specialist
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
20250522-41150-044648-MW-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 7, 2025 to Wednesday, July 16, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a United States Citizen?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. Choose one answer that best describes your experience as related to the occupational requirements for this position.
 A. I have one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least next lower grade level.
 B. I do not meet the requirement described above.
2. This question will be used to determine if you possess the education needed to qualify for this position.Answer to this question is required
 A. A 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree, that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management.
 B. I have held a GS-1102 position at the GS-13 level since January 1, 2000 without a break in service.
 C. I do not possess the above requirements.
3. This question will be used to determine if you possess the experience needed to qualify for this position.Answer to this question is required
 A. I have at least 4-years experience in contracting or related positions. At least 1 year of that experience must have been specialized experience at or equivalent to work at the GS-12 level providing the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the work of the position.
 B. I have held a GS-1102 position at the GS-13 level since January 1, 2000.
 C. I do not possess the above requirements.
4. What level of Federal Acquisition in Contracting Certification (FAC-C) or Defense Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act (DAWIA) certification do you possess?
 A. I possess a current Level I FAC-C/DAWIA certification.
 B. I possess a current Level II FAC-C/DAWIA certification.
 C. I possess a current Level III FAC-C/DAWIA certification.
 D. I previously held a Level I FAC-C/DAWIA certification.
 E. I previously held a Level II FAC-C/DAWIA certification.
 F. I previously held a Level III FAC-C/DAWIA certification.
 G. I do not nor have I ever possessed a FAC-C/DAWIA certification at any level.
5. This question will be used to determine if you possess the mandatory training requirements needed to qualify for this position. Applicants must meet the FAC-C requirements and be certified at Level II or III at the time of application. Possession of certification must be indicated as part of application submission. Applicants not certified may still apply and be selected, but must achieve certification within 24 months of appointment. Completion of Level I and 8 (eight) core courses are required for full completion of Level II certification. Please select the following certification/coursework you have completed indicating completion of FAC-C Level II requirements. NOTE: Only courses offered by the Federal Acquisition Institute (FAI), Defense Acquisition University (DAU), or by a recognized equivalent provider may be used to meet the training requirements. If you do not meet all of the required training below, a waiver will be requested by the selecting official.
 A. Completion of FAC-C Level I Certification
 B. Business Decisions for Contracting (CON 200)
 C. Legal Considerations in Contracting (CON 216)
 D. Analyzing Contract Costs (CLC 056)
 E. Intermediate Cost and Price Analysis (CON 270)
 F. Managing Government Property in the Possession of Contractors (CLC 051)
 G. Negotiating (HBS 428)
 H. Source Selection and Administration of Service Contracts (CON 280)
 I. Contract Administration & Negotiation Techniques in a Supply Environment (CON 290)
 J. I do not meet all of the above and will need a training waiver.
6. This question will be used to determine if you possess the mandatory training requirements needed to qualify for this position. Applicants must meet the FAC-C requirements and be certified at Level II or III at the time of application. Possession of certification must be indicated as part of application submission. Applicants not certified may still apply and be selected, but must achieve certification within 24 months of appointment. Completion of Level I and II certifications are required as well as 2 core courses plus 1 elective for full completion of Level III. Select the following certification/coursework you have completed indicating completion of FAC-C Level III requirements. NOTE: Only courses offered by the Federal Acquisition Institute (FAI), Defense Acquisition University (DAU), or by a recognized equivalent provider may be used to meet the training requirements. If you do not meet all of the required training below, a waiver will be requested by the selecting official.
 A. Completion of FAC-C Level I and Level II Certifications
 B. Core Course Contracting for Decision Makers (CON 360)
 C. Core Course HBS Module other than HBS 428
 D. Elective: 32 Hours of Electives-see FAC-C active link in Qualifications section for applicable coursework
 E. Elective: Mission-Focused Services Acquisition (ACQ 265)
 F. Elective: Understanding Industry (ACQ 315)
 G. Elective: Acquisition Law (ACQ 370)
 H. Elective: Construction Contracting (CON 244)
 I. Elective: Fundamentals of Cost Accounting Standards (CON 252)
 J. Elective: Advanced Contract Pricing (CON 370)
 K. I do not meet all of the above and will need a training waiver.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected