Position Title
Equipment Specialist (Wildland Fire Fighter)
Agency
Forest Service
Announcement Number
25-FIRE-PXR5-EQSPEC-79DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 21, 2025 to Wednesday, July 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than USDA? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

 For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. San Dimas, CA
 B. Missoula, MT
2. Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Please enter at least 3 references below. Include first and last name, phone number and email address.

Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this Equipment Specialist position with the USDA Forest Service. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Read all responses before making your selection. YOUR RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWERS YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you have experience performing on the line wildland fire suppression duties as a member of an organized fire suppression crew or comparable unit that utilized knowledge of fire suppression, containment or control techniques and practices under various conditions AND do you have this experience documented with specific dates in your work history/resume?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Specialized Experience Requirements for GW-07 level.
2. From the description below, select the response that best describes how your background meets the basic requirements for an Equipment Specialist GW-1670-07.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS/GW-5 grade level. Examples include aiding in field evaluations, testing, and/or data collection required for determining usability and service-wide acceptance of firefighting equipment including products for firefighter safety, water handling, aerial delivery, hand tools, personal protective equipment (PPE), or other equipment used in firefighting operations. Assisting in surveying and obtaining the technical information required to recommend design, fabrication, and evaluation parameters of wildland firefighting equipment. Aiding in the planning, execution, and monitoring of projects evaluating the effectiveness of firefighter equipment for firefighter safety, water handling, aerial delivery, hand tools, personal protective equipment (PPE), helicopter rappelling, and/or smoke jumping. Trained in reading and interpreting specifications, standards, engineering drawings, statements of work, deviation requests, technical manuals, and other technical publications and documentation related to firefighter safety, water handling, aerial delivery, hand tools, personal protective equipment (PPE), or other equipment used in firefighting operations.
 B. I have one full year of graduate level education.
 C. I have an appropriate combination of graduate level education and specialized experience, or Superior Academic Achievement. The education must have been obtained in an accredited college or university and demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work, i.e., in a field of study related to the position to be filled (for example, engineering).
 D. I do not meet the experience or education requirements specified above.
Specialized Experience Requirements for GW-09 level.
3. From the description below, select the response that best describes how your background meets the basic requirements for an Equipment Specialist GW-1670-09.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS/GW-7 grade level. Examples include Assisting in field evaluations, testing, and/or data collection required for determining usability and service-wide acceptance of firefighting equipment including products for firefighter safety, water handling, aerial delivery, hand tools, personal protective equipment (PPE), or other equipment used in firefighting operations. Surveying and obtaining the technical information required to recommend design, fabrication, and evaluation parameters of wildland firefighting equipment. Assisting in the planning, execution, and monitoring of projects evaluating the effectiveness of firefighter equipment for firefighter safety, water handling, aerial delivery, hand tools, personal protective equipment (PPE), helicopter rappelling, and/or smoke jumping. Reading and interpreting specifications, standards, engineering drawings, statements of work, deviation requests, technical manuals, and other technical publications and documentation related to firefighter safety, water handling, aerial delivery, hand tools, personal protective equipment (PPE), or other equipment used in firefighting operations.
 B. I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related.
 C. I have an appropriate combination of specialized experience and education (only graduate education in excess of 18 semester hours may be used to qualify applicants for this grade level). The education must have been obtained in an accredited college or university and demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work, i.e., in a field of study related to the position to be filled (for example, engineering).
 D. I do not meet the experience or education requirements specified above.
4. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 B. No, I do not certify, and I understand that by responding "no" to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected