Position Title
Officer Uniformed Division (Reemployed Annuitants and ICTAP eligibles)
Agency
U.S. Secret Service
Announcement Number
OPO-DT-1734220-25-RA Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, June 5, 2025 to Tuesday, September 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former Federal civilian employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm the following:  
Located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; and
Applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which will be or were separated; and
Applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which will be or were separated; and
Last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify eligibility, you must submit:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, notice of (proposed) removal for declining a directed geographic relocation outside the local commuting area (e.g., a directed reassignment or a change in duty station), notice of compensable work-related injury or illness termination and agency certification of inability to place, or notice of disability annuity termination; AND
SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), that reflects all of the following:
Position, grade level (GS-15 or below), and duty location; and
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is "1" or "2" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34), or excepted service without time limit (Position Occupied is "2" in block 34) who is covered by a law providing both noncompetitive appointment eligibility to, and selection priority for, competitive service positions.
Any documentation from agency that shows current promotion potential; AND
Latest performance appraisal including rating.
For more information, review Career Transition (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a retiree of the Federal Employee Retirement System (FERS) or Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS), receiving a federal annuity, who is eligible for re-employment as a federal annuitant?

To verify eligibility as a Federal Employee Retirement System (FERS) or Civil Service Retirement System eligible, you must submit your retirement Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following:
Retirement (Block-5B); and
Reflects the highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the retirement SF-50)
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Rehoboth Beach, DE
 B. Wilmington, DE
 C. Washington, DC
 D. Miami Beach, FL
 E. Palm Beach, FL
 F. Waimanalo, HI
 G. Kennebunkport, ME
 H. Chappaqua, NY
 I. New York, NY
 J. Crawford, TX
 K. Dallas, TX
2. Would you accept a term appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditional of Employment
All applicants must complete the following section. This section will be used to determine your ability and willingness to accept certain conditions of employment or meet certain requirements of the position. Please respond 'Yes' or 'No' to the following statements. Failure to respond to this section will result in an ineligible rating.
The following questions are regarding USSS' conditions of employment such as appearance and health; examinations, investigations, and tests; fitness and the training. We expect our employees to uphold these conditions throughout their tenure with USSS.

The duties of this position are exacting and involve responsibility for the safety of others under trying conditions, requiring applicants to possess emotional and mental stability. Any condition that would hinder full, efficient performance of the duties of this position or that would cause the individual to be a hazard to himself/herself or to others is disqualifying.

If selected for this position, you will be:
Prohibited from having visible body markings (including but not limited to tattoos, body art, and branding) on the head, face, neck, hands, and fingers (i.e. any area below the wrist), with the exception of a single conservative and unobtrusive tattoo in the form of a ring, such as a wedding band on one finger.
On call 24 hours a day and 7 days a week and are expected to respond immediately if called; Be required to work shift work (e.g. night shifts, weekend shifts, early morning shifts); Be often required to work extended hours, including multiple consecutive shifts and unscheduled overtime; Be often required to work several days in a row without a day off; Be often required to work holidays; Be often required to report to work during inclement weather (e.g., snow, ice, other hazardous conditions); Often have to work outside during inclement weather.
Sometimes operate under leave restrictions, which means you are not permitted to take certain types of leave like vacation during busy times.
Frequently reassigned (sometimes involuntarily) to different field offices throughout the United States and must be willing to accept such reassignments.
Required to travel with little notice or down time; Be required to travel internationally, if needed; Be required to travel for up to 21 consecutive days, if needed.
Required to sign a mobility agreement, in which you agree to accept assignments anywhere within the United States and overseas.
Required to undergo intense physical, classroom, and firearms training for several weeks; Maintain firearms skills to the highest degree; Be tested quarterly on firearms abilities.
Required to maintain physical fitness throughout your career.
Required to follow the Government Code of Ethics which prohibits even the appearance of unethical conduct both on- and off-duty; places restrictions on what employees can do both on- and off-duty; and prohibits employees from obtaining part-time employment which conflicts with official duties.
Required to participate in all aspects of the application process. You will be disqualified for employment should you refuse.
1. In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF-50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you possess or are you in the process of obtaining a valid U.S. state driver's license?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. If I receive a conditional offer of employment, I am willing to undergo a pre-employment drug screening.
 A. Yes
 B. No
All applicants must undergo a comprehensive background investigation. The background investigation focuses on your honesty, reliability, police record, financial record, use of alcohol and drugs, mental health, and employment record. The background investigation includes interviews with your past and present employers, neighbors, teachers, and references, as well as checks of law enforcement, credit, educational, medical, and other records.
4. Are you a Federal Employee Retirement System (FERS) or Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) retiree, receiving a federal annuity of the US Secret Service? Please provide, with your application package, a Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, documenting your retirement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Have you held or are you currently appointed as a reemployed annuitant with ANY Department of Homeland Security (DHS) component? If "YES", please provide a Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, documenting your current/previous reemployed annuitant appointment with your application package.

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a Federal Employee Retirement System (FERS) or Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) retiree, receiving a federal annuity from any other agency in the Federal Government? Please type yes or no and include name of the agency in the text box. Also, please provide, with your application package, a Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, documenting your retirement.
(limit 30 characters)
7. Are you under 60 years of age?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Uniformed Division Officer applicants must undergo a complete medical examination as part of the hiring process. This is required to ensure the applicant is able to meet the stringent medical standards for the position. Any chronic disease or condition affecting the respiratory, cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, musculoskeletal, digestive, nervous, endocrine, lymphatic, nervous, genitourinary, and other systems that would impair full performance of the duties of the position may be disqualifying. The duties of this position require moderate to arduous physical exertion involving walking and standing, use of firearms, and exposure to inclement weather. Manual dexterity with comparatively free motion of fingers, wrists, elbows, shoulders, hips, and knee joints is required for this position. Special Agent applicants must also undergo preemployment drug screening. The purpose of the drug screening is to detect the current usage of illegal drugs.

I certify that I understand these requirements and am willing to undergo a complete medical examination and drug screening as part of the hiring process.
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. If you receive a conditional offer of employment, do you agree to provide your medical records to the U.S. Secret Service's medical staff for review?
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you legally able to possess a firearm? Answer "Yes" if you would be legally able to obtain a permit to possess a firearm, even if you do not currently have a permit?
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Do you certify that all responses provided on this online application are true, complete, and correct to the best of your knowledge and belief, and are made in good faith?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Officer position with United States Secret Service. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1. Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Officer at the LE-01 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience that exceeds the minimum qualifications for this position and demonstrates acceptable proficiency in all of the critical competencies required of at the LE-01 which includes limiting access to protected areas; standing fixed posts/patrols on foot or by motor vehicle; AND preparing incident reports of unusual issues that occur on a post assignment
 B. I do not possess the experience described above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. This position has an individual occupational requirement that requires moderate to arduous physical exertion and/or duties of a hazardous nature. The following medical requirements apply: good near and distant vision, ability to distinguish basic colors, and ability to hear the conversational voice. Are you willing and able to comply with this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected