Position Title
ADMINISTRATIVE SPECIALIST
Agency
Defense Information Systems Agency
Announcement Number
CES-DISA-12797946-25QC Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 15, 2025 to Monday, September 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current employee of the Defense Information Systems Agency?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Gunter AFB, AL
 B. Denver, CO
 C. Fort Meade, MD
 D. Columbus, OH
 E. Tinker AFB, OK
 F. Chambersburg, PA
 G. Mechanicsburg, PA
 H. San Antonio, TX
 I. Hill AFB, UT
 J. Arlington, VA
2. Are you a retired Federal employee receiving an annuity from the Office of Personnel Management? NOTE: If you answered yes to this question, attach a copy of your retirement Standard Form 50 to your application.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former (within last five-years) Executive Branch political appointee; Schedule C excepted service appointee (confidential, policy or transitional role), or non-career or limited appointee in the Senior Executive Service (SES)?

Agencies must request OPM approval to appoint the following current or former (within five-years) Executive Branch political appointees to permanent competitive service, non-political excepted service, or career SES positions:
https://www.opm.gov/FAQs/QA.aspx?fid=023f2059-dff7-4307-89b4-c553c218af1d&pid=08248d29-d26e-44b6-9988-57655358d509
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Do you have any relatives working for the Agency for which you are applying?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. If you answered yes to the previous question, please provide the name, relationship, organization employed within, and location if known.
6. If you were recommended to apply for this position by a current DISA employee, please indicate the name of that employee.
7. Are you a current employee of the Agency for which you are applying?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Please accurately identify your level of training or experience when completing this questionnaire. Your responses will be evaluated and verified based on your submitted resume. Ensure that your resume accurately describes the level of education and/or experience claimed in the assessment questionnaire. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. By continuing in the application process, I acknowledge that my self-assessment questionnaire score may be reduced, and I may lose consideration for this position if the work experience described in my resume does not support my responses to the assessment questionnaire.
1. From the descriptions below, select the letter that corresponds to the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess and demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Administrative Specialist at the GG-11 grade level. Select only one letter for each item.
 A. I have at least one year of applicable experience that demonstrates the competencies necessary for immediate success in this position at the GG-09 and that would be considered equivalent to work normally performed at the next lower grade level in the federal service. Qualifying experience is defined as: Developing written administrative and programmatic policies and standard operating procedures for ensuring effective management. Maintaining the Senior Leaders' calendar, including scheduling appointments with authority. Serving as liaison for internal and external meetings, working with various action officers and other support personnel in coordinating appropriate scheduling, site requirements, agenda, visual aids, etc., and assessing after action for a wide variety of forums.
 B. I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M. in a field that is directly related to this position that may be substituted to meet the specialized experience requirement. To be creditable, education must have been obtained from an accredited college or university. (You MUST submit transcripts or proof of education to verify your claim.)
 C. I do not possess the full amounts of experience and education as are described in A and B above. However, I have a percentage of the education and experience which when combined totals 100% of the necessary education and experience to qualify for this position. (Only graduate level education will count toward the percentage.) (You MUST submit transcripts or proof of education to verify your claim)
 D. I do not meet any of the above requirements.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. Do you certify, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.)? Do you understand that the information provided may be investigated? Do you understand that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with your application may be grounds for not hiring you or for firing you after you begin work? Do you also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected