Position Title
Equipment Specialist
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
20250904-30034-201789-DG-IM Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 10, 2025 to Sunday, September 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current United States Coast Guard Employee within the local commuting area?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current DHS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?
Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
For more information about CTAP eligibility, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating of record.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Which of the following responses BEST represents your performance rating?
 A. I received the highest rating attainable and received a performance award under my organizations performance appraisal system on a performance appraisal received within the past 5 years and it was in a related position.
 B. I received the second highest rating attainable and received a performance award under my organizations performance appraisal system within the past 5 years and it was in a related position.
 C. I received a performance award under my organizations performance appraisal system on a performance appraisal received within the past 5 years in a related or unrelated position.
 D. I do not meet any of the performance rating described above.
3. Which of the following BEST represents your awards history? Awards include sustained superior performance awards, special act or achievement awards, meritorious civilian service awards, quality step increases, and other equivalent awards. Letters of commendation and appreciation are NOT creditable.
 A. I received an award(s), such as those defined above, within the past 5 years for service, accomplishments, or initiatives in a related position.
 B. I received an award(s), such as those defined above, more than 5 years ago for service, accomplishments, or initiatives in a related position.
 C. I have not received any awards.
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.

1. Which answer best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position?
 A. I have completed 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least GS-11 grade level in the Federal government. Examples of specialized experience include working as a skilled mechanic or maintenance worker, sales or service engineer, or planner or estimator in a technical group, analyzing contract specifications and examining pertinent equipment, reading and interpreting engineering change orders, equipment requisitions, shop order and work orders.
 B. I do not meet any of the requirements for this position.
2. Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience reviewing technical data and documentation for marine shipboard propulsion equipment.
 A. I do not have experience reviewing technical data and documentation for marine shipboard propulsion equipment.
 B. I have completed education or training related to marine shipboard propulsion equipment, but have not applied this knowledge in my work.
 C. I have reviewed technical/ commercial drawings, proprietary information and rights to data issues to determine the validity for use in government contracts.
 D. I have read and interpreted the technical validity of schematics, blueprints, work orders, engineering change orders, and supply and technical manuals for the selection of parts and other determinations.
 E. I have identified and made comments on corrections of omissions and errors in required documentation.
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
3. Which response best describes your highest level of experience conducting market research for procurement actions/contracts for marine shipboard propulsion machinery?
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
4. Which response best describes your highest level of experience writing statements of work?
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
5. Which technical documents have you prepared for procurement actions?
 A. Six-part technical specifications for purchase/repair requirements
 B. Statements of Work
 C. Justifications for Other Than Full and Open Competition (JOTFOC)
 D. None of the above
6. With which individuals have you coordinated work to attain project goals?
 A. Management officials
 B. Shipboard personnel
 C. Platform/Product managers
 D. Sponsors
 E. Engineers
 F. Technicians
 G. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
7. Do you have experience orally communicating with others to clarify technical information?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Which documents have you interpreted to determine the selection of services and parts for procurement documents?
 A. Blueprints
 B. Work orders
 C. Engineering change orders
 D. Government/military specifications and standards
 E. Government/military technical manuals
 F. None of the above
9. Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience as a Contracting Officers Representative (COR).
 A. I have served as a certified COR on contracts in excess of $100,000.00 for the purchase or repair of equipment.
 B. I have served as a certified COR on contracts valued between $25,000 - $100,000.00 for the purchase or repair of equipment.
 C. I have served as a certified COR on contracts valued less than $25,000 for purchase or repair of equipment.
 D. I have completed COR certification, but have not applied this knowledge in my work.
 E. I have not served as a COR.
10. Which tasks have you performed to create technical documentation maintenance/repair contracts?
 A. Generated technical specifications in 6-part format for purchase and repair requirements
 B. Generated Cost Estimates for purchase and repair contract packages
 C. Conducted and documented Market Research
 D. Prepared Acquisition Plans
 E. Calculated Delivery Schedules
 F. None of the above
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
11. Which response best describes your highest level of experience determining long-range requirements and distribution plans for mechanical equipment and systems?
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
12. Have you orally communicated with others to provide technical guidance related to a procurement contract?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
13. Which response best describes your highest level of experience investigating quality problems with replacement equipment and parts?
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
14. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, that my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731), or I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), I understand that any information I give may be investigated.
 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected