Position Title
SUPPLY TECHNICIAN
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-12767256-AR-25-211 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 23, 2025 to Wednesday, August 6, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Employment Criteria
1. What is your current Unit of Assignment? If you are not currently in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example 1/111th Infantry, 193rd SOW)

2. What is your current military grade? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example: E1, WO1, O1)

3. What is your current MOS (Army) or AFSC (Air Force)? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A.

4. Are you currently an Enlisted Member in the grade of E1 to E9 in the Pennsylvania National Guard?

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. From the categories below, please select your current status.
 A. AOC 1: NG Employees at the Training Center
 B. AOC 2: NG employees in the Training Center
 C. AOC 3: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 D. AOC 4: All service members of the Pennsylvania National Guard (This includes M-Day Soldiers, Temporary Technicians and AGR Personnel)
 E. AOC 5: Individuals who are currently serving in another branch of service who are willing to become members of the PANG
 F. AOC 6: Individuals with Prior Service or No Prior Service, who are not currently in any branch of service AND are willing to become members of the PANG
 G. Those individuals who are not willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard.
Assessment 1
1. Do you possess experience, education, or training in a variety of operations or situations concerned with substance or content of supply actions, requiring ability to decide course of action to take, considering the circumstances or conditions encountered? Do you have experience using computer and automation systems?

 A. Yes.
 B. No, I do not.
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
2. Do you have at least 12 months experience, education, or training which demonstrates a thorough knowledge of governing supply regulations, policies, procedures, and instructions applicable to the specific assignment? Do you have experience conducting extensive searches for required information; reconstructing records for complex supply transactions; and/or provide supply operations support for activities involving specialized or unique supplies, equipment, or parts? Do you have experience performing routine aspects of supply work based on practical knowledge of standard procedures, where assignments include individual case problems related to a limited segment in one of the major areas of supply management?

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
3. Are you related to anyone in this agency?

 A. Yes, I have a relative who is employed by this agency.
 B. No, I am not related to anyone employed by this agency.
4. Have you ever been separated for cause from a federal position?

 A. Yes.
 B. No, I have not.
5. I certify to the best of my knowledge and belief that my answers are true, correct, complete and made in good faith.

 A. Yes.
 B. No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected