Position Title
Civil Engineer (Hydrologic)
Agency
Bureau of Reclamation
Announcement Number
BOR-UCB-25-DH-12776080-JS Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 4, 2025 to Monday, August 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center or review The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior with CTAP eligibility?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)

To claim ICTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify ICTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center or review The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than The Department of the Interior?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
To verify your claimed eligibility to apply for this position vacancy, you must submit all supporting documentations outlined in the Required Documents section of this job announcement.
You WILL NOT be considered for this announcement if you fail to submit ALL the applicable required documentation in the announcement (i.e. transcripts,DD-214's, SF-15, VA letter, SF-50's, PE Registration, etc.) by the CLOSING DATE of this announcement. Please call the Human Resources Office phone number listed on this announcement for clarification or further information.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Where did you learn about this vacancy?
 A. American Society of Professional Estimators (ASPE)
 B. Association for Advancement of Cost Engineering International (AACEI)
 C. Engineering News-Record (ENR)
 D. Asianlife.com
 E. Diversenote.com
 F. NativeAmericanJobs.com
 G. WorkplaceDiversity.com
 H. Department of Veterans Affairs/Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment
 I. Division of Vocational Rehabilitation (DVR)
 J. National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE)
 K. Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities (HACU)
 L. Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU)
 M. Tribal Colleges and Universities (TCU)
 N. Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE)
 O. Referral from a Professor or Academic Advisor
 P. Referral from a College/University Career Placement Office
 Q. Referral from a non-listed Professional Organization
 R. Job/Career Fair
 S. Referral from a friend or family member
 T. Reclamation Employee
 U. Reclamation Internet Site
 V. Referral from a State or Local government
 W. Referral from another Federal Agency/employee
 X. USAJOBS.gov Search
 Y. Other Internet Site
 Z. Other
7. If you selected OTHER as your response to the question above, please elaborate on your answer.
8. Certificates of Eligible Applicants for this position may be shared with other Federal agencies at their request. This may include other Offices within the Bureau of Reclamation, other Bureaus within the Department of the Interior, and/or other Federal agencies. If your information is shared with another office/bureau/agency, you will be notified. Do you authorize the sharing of your information with other Federal agencies? If you respond "No" to this question, your information will not be shared and you will not be considered for employment by the requesting agency.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
If selected, you will be subject to an initial suitability review, determined by a background investigation.
1. This position is designated as a Non-Sensitive/Low Risk position. It requires a fully completed and favorably adjudicated SF85 Background Investigation (T1 or equivalent) that is current (within the last 5 years). This is a condition of employment.

Are you willing to undergo a comprehensive background investigation which includes, but is not limited to, contact with all references, employers, co-workers, personal associates, and a review of your driving record, credit history, criminal history, and military service?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1

Thank you for your interest in the GS-0810-12 Civil Engineer (Hydrologic) position with the Bureau of Reclamation. We will evaluate your resume and your responses for this assessment questionnaire to determine if you meet the minimum qualifications for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before submitting your responses to this questionnaire.
1. Basic Requirement: Select one statement that best describes your education, registration and/or experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for the Civil Engineer position at this level.
 A. I have successfully completed a full 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's or higher degree in engineering with at least one program accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET). NOTE: You must submit copies of your transcripts.
 B. I have successfully completed a full 4-year course of study leading to a degree leading to a bachelor's degree in or higher degree in Engineering that included differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. Note: You must submit your transcripts.
 C. I have completed 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences, and that include the courses specified in B above. These courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program. NOTE: You must submit copies of your transcripts.
 D. I have successfully completed a curriculum leading to a Bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field, such as engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology AND have at least one year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. This must include either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions. NOTE: You must submit copies of your transcripts.
 E. I have successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination, or any other written test required for professional registration by engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico. NOTE: You must submit documentation of having passed the examination.
 F. I am currently registered as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensed as a as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. This registration must have been obtained by written test OR be in general engineering or a directly related engineering field and was gained by State grandfather or eminence provisions. NOTE: You must submit copies of your current registration.
 G. I do not possess any of the Basic Qualification Requirement options as described above.
2. In addition to the Basic Education Requirement, in order to qualify at the GS-12 level, you must have one full year of specialized experience, comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service (obtained either in the private or public sectors) performing professional civil engineering work. This experience includes the following: (1) planning, performing, coordinating, and directing comprehensive hydrologic civil engineering studies of regulated and unregulated river systems and infrastructure in accordance with applicable authorizations, policy, and regulatory requirements; (2) providing engineering design, analyses, review with interpreted computing languages, statistical and data visualization approaches and/or documentation for a wide range of civil engineering assignments; (3) performing hydrologic analyses and investigations such as flow studies and statistical hydrologic studies; and (4) building trust based relationships with landowners, company representatives, and public officials in order to overcome adverse opinion in controversial transactions.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience as described above and meet the education requirement.
 B. I do not meet any of the requirements described above.
3. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true correct and provided in good faith
 B. No, I do not certify that the information provided above is true or accurate.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected