Position Title
STAFF ASSISTANT
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
25-DO-12800971 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 19, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current Treasury Department employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current Treasury employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current Treasury employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current Department of Treasury employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other
3. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
4. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
6. Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.
7. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
For the GS-11, you must have one year (52 Weeks) of experience at the GS-09 level, or equivalent, which is directly related to the position as listed in this announcement and has equipped the candidate with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform the duties of the position successfully. Specialized experience is defined as follows:

-Experience with administrative functions such as scheduling meetings, coordinating external speaking engagements for staff and making arrangements with/for other staff personnel; AND
-Experience reviewing information and independently making decisions on how to proceed.

OR
You may qualify with a Ph. D. or equivalent graduate degree
OR
3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree. OR LL.M., if related.
OR
You may qualify by a combination of experience and education. Only graduate level education in excess of the first 36 semester hours (54 quarter hours) may be combined to be considered for qualifying education.
1. Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 A. I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the previous question.
 B. I have a Ph. D. or equivalent graduate degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree that demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to do the work OR I have a LL.M., in a field related to this position.
 C. I have a combination of education and experience, as described, which together are qualifying for the position.
 D. I do not meet the specialized experience as described in the previous question and do not meet the qualifying education as listed in the selections above.
2. Please identify the area(s) in travel preparation in which you are proficient.
 A. Making travel arrangements domestically (including air and ground transportation, hotel and suite accommodations, etc.).
 B. Making travel arrangements internationally (including air and ground transportation, hotel and suite accommodations, etc.).
 C. Review all logistics for domestic engagements.
 D. Review all logistics for international engagements.
 E. Preparing travel authorizations.
 F. Preparing travel vouchers.
 G. None of the above.
3. From the list below, select the choice that most closely represents your experience with planning, coordinating, and arranging meetings, or conferences.
 A. I arrange meetings for my organization based on specific instructions from my supervisor or other higher-level employee. Arrangements are typically limited to reserving an office or conference room and informing attendees of time and location. Attendees are typically from within the same office/organization.
 B. I have independently planned and coordinated high level meetings within my organization (typically with heads of offices or organizations but not characterized as headquarter or national level office). This included making travel arrangements, insuring proper meeting rooms were reserved, and insuring for proper levels of access.
 C. I have independently arranged meetings for my assigned office/organization. This typically involves arranging for a conference room/office, and informing attendees of time and location. Attendees are typically from within the local organization but may occasionally include other offices or external parties. If travel is involved, it is typically arranged for by the attendees organization/office.
 D. I do not have any experience as described in the choices above.
4. Select the choice that most closely represents your experience in coordinating administrative work of day-to-day office functions.
 A. I have experience handling routine actions in any given day. This is typically characterized by maintaining subject matter files, screening and referring calls and visitors to appropriate subject matter personnel, preparing and processing travel orders and personnel actions, records management, ordering office supplies and maintaining supervisor's calendar.
 B. I have experience handling multiple activities in assigned organization. This is characterized by maintaining controls of incoming correspondence, following up to ensure timely action, records management, making travel arrangements and preparing itinerary, answering and referring calls, maintaining supervisor's calendar, maintaining filing system and assisting or informing other employees about office procedures and requirements.
 C. I have experience independently coordinates and directs the day-to-day activities of the office. This is characterized by receiving and responding to a variety of calls, maintaining supervisor's calendar, recommending and implementing new standard procedures, records management, arranging meetings and conferences, designing/developing new filing system, compiling and summarizing information from various sources and planning and organizing the work of others.
 D. None of the above
5. Please select the response that best describes your highest level of experience related to office automation tasks.
 A. I use a wide range of the functions of multiple software types (word processing, spreadsheets, database) to meet the needs of the office.
 B. I have saved and retrieved electronic files or documents, inserted and deleted text in letters and memoranda, entered data into established spreadsheets or databases, printed documents, and sent and received electronic mail.
 C. I create a wide range of documents, often requiring formats, using the advanced functions of one software type, e.g., edit and reformat lengthy drafts, generate tables of contents, lists of exhibits, indexes, revise databases or spreadsheets.
 D. I select the most appropriate software based on the nature of the work and my experience with the features of the full range of software types, creating documents using multiple software types (e.g., reports containing graphics, charts or tables), developing new databases or spreadsheets to meet office needs.
 E. I analyze office procedures to determine how automation can improve work processes, develop improved methods and procedures, provide written or oral guidance on new procedures, and instruct other employees on use of hardware or software.
 F. None of the above.
6. I have performed the following work assignments:
 A. Use the Internet to research and gather information.
 B. Research and summarize information from a variety of sources to prepare one of-a-kind documents.
 C. Use the Internet to research and gather mission information or make travel reservations, etc.
 D. Input and retrieve data in a computer system.
 E. Search files, documents, or other sources for informational materials to prepare responses to inquiries, briefing packages or background for meetings or conferences.
 F. Collect, prepare and format data from personal research.
 G. None of the above.
7. Please identify the software application(s) you are proficient with:
 A. Microsoft Word
 B. Microsoft PowerPoint
 C. Microsoft Excel
 D. Microsoft Access
 E. Microsoft Outlook
 F. Adobe Pro
 G. SharePoint
 H. Lexis/Nexis/Westlaw/PACER
 I. Concur Travel software
 J. Time and attendance software, such as WebTA
 K. None of the above
8. Which features of Microsoft Word have you applied on a regular basis?
 A. Created tables
 B. Set up forms
 C. Set up correspondence
 D. Created mail merges
 E. Inserted tables
 F. Inserted graphics
 G. Formatted text
 H. None of the above
9. From the following choices identify those areas that reflect your experience with correspondence procedures:
 A. Reviews correspondence for clarity, coherence and spelling and returns to the originator for correcting spelling or formatting procedures.
 B. Prepares responses to requests.
 C. Completes form letter requiring some writing.
 D. Writing/editing of correspondence.
 E. None of the above
10. From the following list, please identify the type(s) of contact(s) that you interact/communicate with on a daily basis.
 A. Senior management officials within your organization.
 B. Officials in other agencies or organizations.
 C. Professional individuals
 D. Peer groups
 E. Members of the public
 F. None of the above
11. Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience in communications.
 A. I have developed written materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences.
 B. I have provided briefings/updates to supervisors, coworkers, or others on a regular basis.
 C. I have coordinated meetings, workshops, or conferences.
 D. I have delivered presentations to groups at work or in other environments.
 E. None of the above.
12. Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience in communicating information to senior management officials.
 A. I have assisted in the preparation of policy recommendations, procedures or analyses, providing data and background information to senior officials as requested.
 B. I have developed comprehensive materials for reports, briefings, and meetings for management officials.
 C. I have communicated program strategies, goals, objectives, and priorities to program personnel within an organization.
 D. I have prepared briefing materials for management officials.
 E. I have made recommendations orally.
 F. None of the above.
13. From the list below select the type of experience you have had identifying and analyzing problems and developing solutions to those problems.
 A. I have analyzed documents and determined the impact on tasks.
 B. I have located and applied appropriate guidance to accomplish tasks.
 C. I have analyzed a problem, evaluated the guidance, and developed a solution.
 D. None of the above.
14. I have conducted staff research in connection with problems, proposals or matters of issue, which involved:
 A. Locating, selecting, and citing reference materials
 B. Collecting and analyzing data
 C. Verifying facts and statistic
 D. Preparing charts, graphs, or displays
 E. Researching in online databases
 F. None of the above
15. Choose the statement that best describes your experience analyzing problems and developing solutions with minimal supervision or guidance.
 A. I have independently analyzed documents and determined their impact on my tasks.
 B. I have analyzed and developed solutions to problems with assistance and guidance from others.
 C. I have been frequently consulted by other workers for assistance in this area.
 D. I have independently analyzed, evaluated guidance and developed solutions to problems.
 E. I have no experience conducting independent analysis.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected