Position Title
Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist - Computed Tomography
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZM-12821875-26-RBW-OCA Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, October 27, 2025 to Wednesday, December 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


4.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position within the Department of Veterans Affairs Health Administration. The following section is used to determine basic requirements for appointment in the federal government and qualification for a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist - Computed Tomography (CT).The full performance level of this vacancy is GS-09.

The following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) should be reflected within your resume or on a separate document with your application package:

GS-9 Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist:
The candidate must demonstrate all of the following technical KSAs and demonstrate the potential to acquire the assignment-specific KSAs designated by an asterisk (*):
*Ability to balance the needs of patients and staff while still performing complex scans and procedures.
Knowledge of techniques for gathering relevant information from the medical record, significant others, and health care providers.
*Ability to assess factors that may contraindicate the procedure.
Knowledge of basic first aid and basic life support practices related to radiography.
Knowledge of physical assessment, aseptic techniques, intravenous methods and techniques and universal precautions.
Knowledge of pre-procedural, procedural, and post-procedural care of patients.

Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and/or education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience and/or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
Education: Have you completed a full-time training course of at least 24 months in duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from other accrediting agencies as recognized by the Department of Education (DOE)?
 Yes, I meet the Educational requirement listed above. (If your school was accredited by JCERT at the time of graduation, but is no longer listed on the websites, or has changed names, you must provide documentation of accreditation with your application packet. Failure to do so will result in an ineligible rating.)
 No, I do not meet the education requirement, therefore I will not receive further consideration for the position.


1a.
Education NARRATIVE: Please provide the following information regarding your full-time training course of at least 24 months in duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from other accrediting agencies as recognized by the Department of Education (DOE).
Course, Length,
Accredited by JCERT or other accrediting body,
Dates completed


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Certification: Are you certified in General Radiologic Technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (ARRT) (R)?
 Yes
 No


2a.
General Radiologic Technology Certification Narrative: Please provide the following information regarding your certification:  General Radiologic Technology Certification, AART, ARRT (R) CERTIFICATION INFORMATION:
Active ARRT ID Number-Initial
Issue:Date-Valid thru Date (For example - Issued MO/YEAR - Expires MO/YEAR)


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Advance Certification: Are you certified in Advanced American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography in Computed Tomography (ARRT) (CT)? To receive credit, you must submit a copy of your unexpired Advance certification from American Registry of Radiologic Technology (ARRT) (CT).
 Yes
 No


3a.
Advance CERTIFICATION INFORMATION: NARRATIVE: Please provide the following information regarding your Advance certification (active) - Certification type, date of original issuance, date of expiration.  Advanced ARRT certification is required for assignments that include computed tomography (CT).
Advance ARRT ID Number-
Initial Issue: Date-Valid thru Date - (For example - Issued MO/YEAR - Expires MO/YEAR)


4.
GS-9 Grade Level Requirements: In addition to the basic requirements and meeting ALL of the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs), I have at least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level GS-08 directly related to the position being filled that demonstrates the clinical competencies described at that level. Employees at this grade level serve as staff DRTs at the full performance level. Candidates at this grade level must be qualified to independently provide services in specialized areas of radiologic technology and/or general radiologic technology services with only occasional oversight or direction for highly complex issues. This specialty modality requires specific knowledge of cross sectional human anatomy and its application in spiral, and/or, multi-slice computer tomography, inclusive of 3-D reconstruction scans, including drainages, biopsies, and peripheral vascular examinations. The technologist requires specific knowledge and training in the location, appearance, and function of the various major and minor systems susceptible to radiological illumination; to interpret the examination request accurately; to understand the functioning and inter-relationship of the various organs; to use the methods and techniques which will identify organs appearing on the digital display monitor, or on film, and the various stages of the examination to judge the acceptability of the image and/or scan for diagnostic use and to emphasize the aspects of interest to the physician. DRT assignments that include performance of independent duties in this subspecialty require advanced ARRT certification.
 Yes, I meet all of the experience as described above.
 No, I do not have this experience, and will not receive further consideration for this position.


***Application Package Notification & Important Information***
 
We appreciate your interest in available positions within the VA Heart of Texas Health Care Network.  It is our goal to forward every eligible and qualified candidate for consideration. 
 
Due to the nature of our systems, it is imperative that your application package be accurate and complete.  Therefore, prior to finalizing your application package and submitting for consideration:
Ensure all documents are appropriately selected, are legible, and have uploaded successfully (we recommend viewing them a second time to ensure no errors have occurred in the process).  Missing documents may cause your application package to be ineligible for consideration.
Ensure that all responses to the assessment questions are accurate and correctly reflect your current situation.  Question responses are used in determining if you meet specific eligibility and qualification requirements.
 
Please Note:  Until the closing date of the announcement, you can update or edit your package.  However, once your application package is submitted and the announcement period closes, we are unable to add documentation or alter your responses.  By submitting your package for consideration, you are attesting that your application package is complete and accurate.
 
Some helpful tips:
*Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title
Grade Level (for federal positions)
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position)
 Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2020)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
*Education - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
 
*Current or former VA or Federal Employees - You must submit a copy of a current and/or highest grade held SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action (not an award SF50)
PMCH 
*Proof of current certification, licensure, or registration (if applicable).
 
https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/students/transcripts/
 
https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/how-to/account/documents/resume/build/
 
https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/faq/application/documents/resume/what-to-include


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙