Position Title
SUPERVISORY RECREATION SPECIALIST (ATHLETIC PROGRAM MANAGER / AQUATICS)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
JRM-25-425 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 3, 2025 to Wednesday, September 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I am willing and able to acquire professional job-related certifications with the time frame specified in the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 45 pounds.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the specialized experience, education, and/or training to qualify for the NAF Supervisory Recreation Specialist (Athletic Program Manager/Aquatics) position.  Failure to meet the basic requirement(s) and/or specialized experience; failure to respond to the question(s); and/or failure to provide required documentation will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below and required documentation uploaded at the time of submission of application/resume packet for this position.
1. Basic Requirements:
Choose the statement that best describes your experience, education, and/or professional certification related to this position. (MUST provide official transcripts, professional certification, and/or personnel action or SF50 AND resume MUST support your statement):
 A. I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related. (MUST provide official transcripts)
 B. I have at least 1 year of full time work experience related to the position at the NF-03/GS-07 level. (Resume MUST reflect experience AND MUST provide personnel action or SF50)
 C. I have an equivalent combination of education and experience that provided me with the knowledge of aquatics programming.
 D. None of these statements apply to me.
2. Position Requirements:
Choose the statement that best describes your experience, education, and/or professional certification related to this position. (MUST provide official transcripts, professional certification, and/or personnel action or SF50 AND resume MUST support your statement):
 A. I have a four-year undergraduate degree in recreation or related field AND instructor certification as a lifeguard, water safety instructor, or International Life Saving Federation certification in accordance with MWR policy (MUST provide official transcripts, professional certification, AND resume MUST reflect experience).
 B. I have a four-year undergraduate degree in recreation or related field AND at least 3 years of experience in the industry. (MUST provide official transcripts, AND resume MUST reflect experience).
 C. I have at least 3 years of experience in the industry AND instructor certification as a lifeguard, water safety instructor, or International Life Saving Federation certification in accordance with MWR policy. (MUST provide professional certification, AND resume MUST reflect experience).
 D. None of the statements apply to me
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. Do you possess a current/unexpired International Life Saving Federation AND CPR for the Professional Rescuer and Emergency Response through the American Red Cross or
equivalent?  (MUST upload proof of valid/unexpired certifications)
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Choose the statement that best describes your work experience related to this position. (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 A. Currently holds a Supervisory Recreation Specialist or supervisory/managerial position responsible for development and oversight of aquatics programming for civilians within CNIC (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 B. Currently holds a Supervisory Recreation Specialist or supervisory/managerial position responsible for development and oversight of aquatics programming for civilians within DoD (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 C. Has held a Supervisory Recreation Specialist or supervisory/managerial position responsible for development and oversight of aquatics programming for civilians within the last 3 years (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 D. None of the statements apply to me
5. Choose the statement that best applies to you. (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 A. Has 5+ years of full time work experience in a supervisory/managerial position responsible for development and oversight of aquatics programming for civilians (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 B. Has 3+ years of full time work experience in a supervisory/managerial position responsible for development and oversight of aquatics programming for civilians (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 C. Has 1+ years of full time work experience in a supervisory/managerial position responsible for development and oversight of aquatics programming for civilians (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 D. None of the statements apply to me
6. Do you have any of the following preferred certifications? (MUST upload proof of valid/unexpired certifications): 

 Lifeguard Instructor;   Water Safety Instructor;   Certified Pool Operator;   American Red Cross Small Craft Safety Training
 A. I have 3 or more of the above certifications (MUST upload proof of valid/unexpired certifications)
 B. I have at least 2 of the above certifications (MUST upload proof of valid/unexpired certifications)
 C. I have at least 1 of the above certifications (MUST upload proof of valid/unexpired certifications)
 D. None of these statements apply to me (MUST upload proof of valid/unexpired certifications)
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected