Position Title
Operations Research Analyst
Agency
Missile Defense Agency
Announcement Number
MDA-26-12812273-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, October 14, 2025 to Monday, October 20, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty?
 -OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status? For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
2
3


Announcement Screen-Out
1.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that best describes your level of specialized experience or education.
 NH-02: I have one year of specialized experience at the next lower grade (NH-01/GS-04) or equivalent in the federal service (experience may have been gained in the private sector). I meet 3 of the 5 statements in order to be qualified. Creditable specialized experience includes: Problem Solving: Identify, analyze, and solve complex problems using structured problem-solving techniques. Apply logical and critical thinking to develop solutions to analytical problems. Mathematical Applications: Apply mathematical methods and techniques, such as linear algebra, calculus, probability, and statistics, to solve real-world problems. Familiarity with optimization, simulation, and other operations research methodologies. Data Analysis and Management: Conduct quantitative and qualitative data analysis to extract meaningful insights, including data collection, cleaning, validation, and interpretation. Basic understanding of data management principles, including data storage, retrieval, and database management. Software Tools: Use cost estimating, data analysis or statistical tools and software (e.g. Excel, SAS, R, ACE-IT, etc.) Communication Skills: Use verbal and written communication skills to effectively convey analysis results and insights to customers and stakeholders. Deliver clear and concise reports, presentations, and documentation of analytical findings. Experience must be reflected in your resume. Education may be substituted for experience at the NH-02 level.
 NH-02 Education: Successful completion of a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree that included a major field of study or specific course requirements generally as stated in paragraph A in the individual occupational requirements. Where specific course requirements are not indicated in paragraph A, the number of semester hours required to constitute a major field of study is the amount specified by the college or university attended. If this number cannot be obtained, 24 semester hours will be considered as equivalent to a major field of study. The nature and quality of this required course work must have been such that it would serve as a prerequisite for more advanced study in the field or subject-matter area. Related course work generally refers to courses that may be accepted as part of the program major. Please see the Professional and Scientific section in the qualification standard (https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/classification-qualifications/general-schedule-qualification-standards/#url=Group-Standards)
 NH-02 Combination: I have a combination of experience and education listed in A. and B.
 NH-03: I have one year of specialized experience at the next lower grade (NH-02/GS-11) or equivalent in the federal service (experience may have been gained in the private sector). I meet 2 of the 4 statements in order to be qualified. Create credible, accurate, comprehensive, and documented Life Cycle Cost Estimates (LCCEs), Program Office Estimates (POEs), and/or Independent Government Cost Estimates (IGCEs) Collection, normalization, and analysis of cost data. Develop application of appropriate cost estimating and analysis methodologies, utilizing techniques such as linear and non-linear regression to determine cost estimating relationships (CERs). Create, update, and maintenance of cost models capable of providing timely, reliable cost estimates. Prepare presentations and documentation of cost estimates, cost analysis, cost studies, excursions, recommendations, and/or briefings to customers and stakeholders. Creditable specialized experience includes: Experience must be reflected in your resume.
 I do not possess the required experience and/or education as listed above to qualify for this position.


2.
In addition to meeting the specialized experience and/or education, select the letter that BEST describe the highest level of education and/or experience to meet the Individual Occupational Requirement for the position Operations Research Analyst. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.
 I have a Degree in operations research.
 I have at least 24 semester hours in a combination of operations research, mathematics, probability, statistics, mathematical logic, science, or subject-matter courses requiring substantial competence in college-level mathematics or statistics. At least 3 of the 24 semester hours must have been in calculus.
 I do not meet either of the basic education requirements listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙