Position Title
Child and Youth Program Custodian
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26663-CYP Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 8, 2025 to Tuesday, October 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
Do you reside within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position?

The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 Yes, I reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
 No, I do not reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.


2.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 50 pounds.
 Yes
 No


3.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for this position. Failure to respond may result in an ineligible rating.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
This position requires a high school diploma (or equivalent) or higher education. You must provide documentation in order to be considered. Do you have a high school diploma (or equivalent) or higher education?
 Yes
 No


2.
Select the response that best describes your level of experience or training in cleaning and sanitation.
 Able to lift, push, pull, and carry mops, rakes, buckets, bags, power tools, and similar items to clean indoor and outdoor areas, objects, and surfaces.
 Able to sweep, scrub, wipe, and otherwise clean with tools such as brooms, dusters, cloths, and basic cleaning solutions.
 Able to stock custodial supplies such as chemicals, cleaning agents, cleaning tools, tissues, or paper towels.
 Able to locate spills, trash, or debris.
 Limited or none.


3.
Select the response that best describes your level of experience or training in basic maintenance and equipment usage.
 Able to operate, clean, and maintain powered equipment such as vacuums and floor polishers and identify needed repairs.
 Able to use equipment such as ladders and power drills for basic maintenance tasks such as replacing blinds or changing light bulbs.
 Able to identify equipment, tools, and parts needed for maintenance tasks.
 Able to locate broken items or unwanted obstructions.
 Limited or none.


4.
Select the response that best describes your experience in child & youth custodial service.
 12 or more months working in custodial service in a child & youth-related setting (e.g., daycare, school, family entertainment center, etc.).
 1 to 11 months working in custodial service in a child & youth-related setting (e.g., daycare, school, family entertainment center, etc.).
 Experienced with custodial service in other settings or interested in custodial service work.
 Able to perform custodial service tasks when necessary or under close supervision.
 No experience or interest in food service.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Do you affirm that all of the claims made in your application are true and accurate to the best of your knowledge and ability?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙