Position Title
Business Activities Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12781135 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 14, 2025 to Saturday, August 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Business Activities Manager. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
1. Do you possess a four-year degree in any of the following fields? (Copy of transcripts must be attached to get credit)
 A. Recreation or related field
 B. Business Administration
 C. Food and Beverage Management
 D. None of the above
2. How many years of experience do you have in revenue-generating or for-profit activities? (Resume must reflect the experience to get credit)
 A. 10 years or more
 B. 7 to 10 years
 C. 5 to 7 years
 D. Less than 5 years
3. Do you  currently hold a valid state driver's license?
 A. Yes
 B. No, but I am able to obtain one
 C. No, and I am not able to obtain one
4. How many years of supervisory experience do you have? (Must be documented on your resume to get credit.)
 A. 7 years or more
 B. 5 to 7 years
 C. 3 to 5 years
 D. 1 to 3 years
 E. Less than a year
5. The Business Activities Manager is a supervisory position responsible for development and oversight of Category C activities which may include but is not limited to Food/Beverage, Marina, Lodging, Specialty Retail, Bowling, and Golf. How many of the listed six activities have you worked in before?
 A. All 6
 B. 5 to 6
 C. 4 to 5
 D. 3 to 4
 E. 2 to 3
 F. 1 to 2
6. How long have you been responsible for recreation and financial management tasks such as budgeting, cost analysis, and internal controls?
 A. 5 years or more
 B. 3 to 5 years
 C. 2 to 3 years
 D. 1 to 2 years
 E. Les than a year
7. How long have you been responsible for ensuring compliance with laws, regulations, policies, and precedents related to MWR programs?
 A. 5 years or more
 B. 3 to 5 years
 C. 2 to 3 years
 D. 1 to 2 years
 E. Less than a year
8. Which of the following describes your ability to determine resource needs, allocate resources, and account for the effective use of Morale, Welfare and Recreation programs and activities. [Must be notated on the resume to receive credit]
 A. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the individual asked to assist with this task.
 B. I have performed this task as a regular part of a the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have had education or training in performing the task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 E. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
9. Which of the following best describes your professional experience with food and beverage program delivery? Must be reflected on your resume to receive credit.
 A. 5 years or more
 B. 3 to 5 years
 C. 2 to 3 years
 D. 1 to 2 years
 E. Less than a year
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected