Position Title
EDUCATIONAL AID/TECHNICIAN (CHILD AND YOUTH PROGRAM ASSISTANT)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
JRM-25-398 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 28, 2025 to Saturday, August 2, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. This position has been identified as a Test Designated Position (TDP). I am willing and able to submit to pre-employment and random drug testing (urinalysis) on a recurring basis.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I am willing and able to submit to a pre-employment physical exam prior to employment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This position requires selectee to complete and pass a pre-employment drug test. I am willing and able to complete and pass a pre-employment drug test.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you currently employed in the United States government workforce as a federal employee (e.g., NAF or APF)?

If you answer yes to this question, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Personnel Action Report (PAR/SF-50) showing your status as a federal employee. Failure to provide documentation to support your claim may result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. I am willing and able to acquire professional job-related certifications with the time frame specified in the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. I am able to obtain appropriate immunization against communicable diseases in accordance with recommendations from the  Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP), which includes the influenza vaccine.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the specialized experience, education, and/or training to qualify for the NAF Educational Aid/Technician (Child and Youth Program Assistant) position.  Failure to meet the basic requirement(s) and/or specialized experience; failure to respond to the question(s); and/or failure to provide required documentation will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below and required documentation uploaded at the time of submission of application/resume packet for this position.

1. Are you at least 18 years of age with a high school diploma or equivalent? (MUST provide proof of education)
 A. Yes, high school diploma or equivalent provided
 B. No
2. Choose the statement that best describes your training, education, and/or experience related to this position. (Resume must reflect experience AND must provide proof of training, credentials, and/or official transcripts)
 A. Completed the DOD standardized training courses AND possess 1 year full time work experience working with children and youth (Resume must reflect experience AND must provide proof of training)
 B. A Child Development Associate (CDA) credential or Military School-Age (MSA) credential AND 1 year full time work experience (Resume must reflect experience AND must provide credentials)
 C. 2-year degree in Early Childhood Education (ECE), Child Development or related field of study, which can include Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Elementary Education, Secondary Education, Youth Development, Psychology, Social Work, Home Economics with an emphasis in Human Development, or other degrees as appropriate AND 1 year full time work experience (Resume must reflect experience AND must attach official transcripts)
 D. Completed Navy, Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps Entry Level training AND 6 months full time work experience working with children or youth in a child or youth setting (Resume must reflect experience AND must provide proof of training)
 E. None of the statements apply to me
3. Choose the statement that best describes your work experience related to this position. (Resume must reflect experience)
 A. Has 5+ years of full time work experience working in a child and youth program facility or operations
 B. Has 3+ years of full time work experience working in a child and youth program facility or operations
 C. Has 1+ years of full time work experience working in a child and youth program facility or operations
 D. None of the statements apply to me
4. Choose the statement that best applies to you. (Resume must reflect experience)
 A. Currently hold an Educational Aid/Technician (Child and Youth Program Assistant) position within CNIC Child and Youth Programs (CYP) (Resume must reflect experience)
 B. Currently hold an Educational Aid/Technician (Child and Youth Program Assistant) position within DoD CYP (Resume must reflect experience)
 C. Has held an Educational Aid/Technician (Child and Youth Program Assistant) position or position related to childcare within the last 3 years (Resume must reflect experience)
 D. None of the statements apply to me
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected