Position Title
Dental Laboratory Technician
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12825922-26-JLC Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 29, 2025 to Monday, November 10, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
GS-09 Time-in-Grade Restriction - Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements. (If you have not held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks, this question does not apply to you.) For this vacancy, applicants must have held grade GS-08 or higher for at least a year to be eligible for the GS-09 grade level of this position. The grade must have been held in the Federal service but may have been in any occupation.


Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and/or education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience and/or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
This position has an Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR).

Examples of qualifying specialized experience include:
Use of dental laboratory material such as impression materials, plasters, stones, hydrocolloids, waxes, metals, acrylics, porcelain, and similar materials.
Use of laboratory equipment such as hand tools, dental lathes, engines, and hand pieces, furnaces, casting machines, presses, flasks, and related equipment.
Use of precision instruments such as articulators, surveyors, and microanalyzers.
Construction of dental prosthetic appliances.
Do you meet the Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR)? 

NOTE:   Your resume must clearly demonstrate your experience.
 Yes
 No


2.
Carefully read the following descriptions of the required specialized experience for the GS-09 position. Your resume must support your response.

Applicants must have one (1) full year of specialized experience related to this position. This experience must have been equivalent to at least the GS-08 grade level in the Federal Service.

Specialized experience: Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: Construct wrought wire buccal arm clasps to reduce tension on teeth and prolong their life. Reproduces dentures with high degree of precision and accuracy. Fabricates crown, inlays and fixed partial dentures from gold alloys, porcelain or acrylic materials, alone or in combination, according to the requirements of the case. Selects appropriate porcelain or acrylic facings of proper shade, size and shape. Articulates casts, adapts wax to die and carve pattern to proper anatomical contour and occlusion. Work closely with oral surgeons, prosthodontists, and other dental, medical, and laboratory specialists in the design and fabrication of intraoral maxillofacial appliances and restorations.

OR,

Education:  Master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a degree that is directly related to the work of the Dental Laboratory Technician position. Such graduate education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position.

OR,

Combination of Experience & Education: Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at this level. You must have an appropriate combination of specialized experience and education.

NOTE: Transcripts (unofficial or official) must be submitted with your application materials if you are using education to meet this requirement.  Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 Experience: I possess one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the GS-08 level in the Federal service, that equipped me with the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSA?s) needed to successfully perform the duties of this position and that is typically in or related to the position being filled.
 Education: I possess a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a degree that is directly related to the work of the Dental Laboratory Technician position. (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED)
 Experience/Education Combination: I possess an equivalent combination of successfully completed graduate education (beyond the first year) and specialized experience directly related to the work of the Dental Laboratory Technician position. (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 I do NOT possess the experience and/or education as described in the above.


3.
Verification Statement - Select the appropriate answer to the statement below. Failure to provide an answer will result in your application not being considered for this position.
 
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I understand the information provided above and certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify this information and do not wish to be considered for this position.


REMINDER Current, permanent federal employees must submit recent SF-50 from the past 12 months which clearly shows current, permanent federal eligibility. Examples of appropriate SF-50's include:
General adjustment/Cost of living Increase
Within grade increases at the highest grade held
Promotions SF-50's at the highest grade held within the past year
Cash Award, benefit changes or time off Awards 50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted.
Please check your electronic official personnel folder (eOPF) for your most recent SF-50. HR will not contact you for more info or documents. You can attach more than 1 SF50. All current, permanent federal employees applicants must ensure that they have included one or more SF50's showing current, permanent employment status in the past 12 months.


RESUME REMINDER - You must provide a complete application package which includes:
Resume - Your resume must include the following information  for each job listed:
Job title and Grade Level (for Federal positions)
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and knowledge, skills and abilities required for the position)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Proof of current certification, licensure or registration (if applicable)


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙