Position Title
MEDICAL RECORDS TECHNICIAN (RELEASE OF INFORMATION-LEGAL)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12792716-25-KM Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 3, 2025 to Friday, September 19, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience and certification that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education and certification are subject to verification by investigation.

Your resume must provide specific examples or documentation of your experience as proof to support your answers. Your failure to adequately document your experience, education, or certification on your resume may result in you being found not qualified for this position.

No assumptions are made regarding your qualifications.
Definitions:

a. Journey Level: The full performance level for the MRT (ROI) assignment is GS-6.
b. Creditable Experience: Experience is only creditable if it is paid or non-paid employment directly related to the position to be filled, or in a related field such as medical support assistants, ward clerks, health record file room/scanning technicians, incomplete health record analysis, medical coding, or other positions that included knowledge of the content and use of health records. To be creditable, the candidate's experience must have demonstrated the use of knowledge, skills, and abilities associated with current release of information practice.
c. Quality of Experience: To be creditable, experience must be documented on the application or resume, and verified through an employment reference or other independent means.
d. Part-Time Experience: Part-time experience as a professional MRT (ROI) is creditable according to its relationship to the full-time workweek. For example, a MRT (ROI) would receive one week of full-time credit for each two weeks of half-time work. e. Predominant Specialty Area. Lead and Supervisory MRT (ROI) whose assignments involve two or more MRT specialty areas will be assigned the parenthetical title for the predominant specialty area being led/supervised
Release of information falls under the jurisdiction of Health Information Management. The following are the requirements for appointment as a Medical Records Technician (MRT) (Release of Information (ROI)) in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). These requirements apply to all VHA MRT (ROI) assignments in the GS-0675 series. The MRT (ROI) reviews and processes requests for patient protected health information (PHI). The MRT (ROI) also provides direct customer service to the Veteran (or third party), by providing copies of the Veteran's PHI, when a signed, written request is received, or upon the Veteran's valid authorization to a third party. The MRT (ROI) must ensure that only the information that the Veteran specified be released, is shared only with those whom the Veteran has authorized, or who have legal authority to receive such information. To perform this task, a MRT (ROI) must possess expertise in all applicable Federal laws, rules, and regulations regarding release of health information.
Basic Requirements - Please answer the following questions to determine if you meet the basic requirements for this position.
1. Citizenship Requirement: For the basic requirements of this position, applicant must be a US Citizen (Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3g, of this part).

Are you a citizen of the United States?
 A. Yes, I attest that I am a citizen of the United States.
 B. No, I am not a citizen of the United States.
2. English Language Proficiency Requirement: Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 A. Yes, I am proficient in spoken and written English.
 B. No, I am NOT proficient in spoken and written English.
3. Basic Education / Experience Requirement: For the GS-07 MRT (ROI-Legal), select the education or experience that best describes you.  Education must be supported with transcripts and experience must be documented in your resume.
 A. At least one year of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology and general understanding of health records. Six months of the required one year of creditable experience must have provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) needed to perform MRT (ROI) work. Experience must be documented in your resume.
 B. An associate's degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education with a major field of study in health information technology/health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, legal aspects of health care, and introduction to health records). Must provide transcripts.
 C. Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of creditable experience and education are qualifying towards meeting basic experience requirements. The following experience and educational/training substitutions are appropriate for combining education and creditable experience: (a) Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, privacy and release of information, the health record, and one year above high school with a minimum of six semester hours of health information technology/health information management courses. (b) Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, privacy and release of information, the health record, and successful completion of a course for medical technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or hospital training obtained in a training program given by the Armed Forces or the U.S. Maritime Service under close medical and professional supervision. The training program may be substituted on a month for-month basis for up to six months of experience provided the training program included courses in anatomy and physiology, and health record techniques and procedures.
 D. I do not have the education and/or experience for this position.
The following questions are used for grade determination as a Medical Records Technician (ROI-Legal), GS-07. Education and experience will be verified.
Medical Records Technician (ROI-Legal), GS-07. For all assignments above the journey level, the higher-level duties must consist of significant scope, complexity (difficulty), range of variety, and be performed by the incumbent at least 25% of the time. MRTs at this grade level will serve as the sole point of contact, and accurately process and timely respond to complex medical legal requests, including, but not limited to, subpoenas, depositions, testimony, tortfeasor (Third Party Liability), Workers' Compensation, Labor and Industries, and court orders for information from attorneys, courts, local law enforcement agencies, public defenders, or insurance agencies. They serve as a liaison to Regional Counsels and U.S. Attorney's offices, for trial cases. They review and analyze requests to ascertain the type of case to be developed. MRTs (ROI -Legal) ensure all disclosures are made in compliance with existing policies, procedures, guidelines, laws, and regulations. They ensure that information released is limited to what is specifically authorized and to the person or agency designated to receive it. They maintain the accounting of disclosures for all leg al cases. MRTs (ROI-Legal) compile the legal health record and provide advisory and technical assistance to patients and internal and external stakeholders pertaining to medical legal requests. They extensively research and resolve conflicting or inconsistent information related to complex medical legal requests.
4.

Specialized Experience:

Must possess one (1) year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-6).

To be considered (GS-6) equivalent experience, resume must demonstrate ALL of the following KSAs:

Knowledge of the laws and regulations related to the authorization and disclosure of health information (e.g., Privacy Act, Freedom of Information Act, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), and 38 U.S.C. 7332, Confidentiality of Certain Medical Records).
Ability to apply health record documentation guidelines and processes to navigate efficiently through the paper and/or electronic health record to locate, assemble, and disclose protected health information.
Ability to apply policies, procedures, laws, and regulations governing privacy and release of information to process requests for release of information.
Ability to research and solve difficult questions related to release of health information in an accurate and timely manner


Do you possess at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-6)?

 A. Yes, I possess the above KSAs AND my resume demonstrates ALL of the above KSAs required for this position.
 B. No, I can not demonstrate ALL of the above KSAs
Knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs). In addition to the experience above, you must demonstrate all of the following KSAs. (1.) Knowledge of the laws and regulations related to the authorization and disclosure of health information. (2.) Ability to apply laws and regulations related to the disclosure of health information (e.g., Privacy Act, Freedom of Information Act, HIPAA, and 38 U.S.C. ? 7332, Confidentiality of Certain Medical Records). (3.) Ability to investigate the contents of paper and electronic health records and systems that contain health information to compile the legal health record based on existing standards and requirements.
5. Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):  In addition to the specialized experience above, the candidate must demonstrate ALL of the following KSAs:
Knowledge of the laws and regulations related to the authorization and disclosure of health information.
Ability to apply laws and regulations related to the disclosure of health information (e.g., Privacy Act, Freedom of Information Act, HIPAA, and 38 U.S.C. 7332, Confidentiality of Certain Medical Records).
Ability to investigate the contents of paper and electronic health records and systems that contain health information to compile the legal health record based on existing standards and requirements.

Can you demonstrate ALL of the knowledge, skills, and abilities listed above for the MRT (ROI-Legal). This experience must be documented in your resume.
 A. Yes, I can demonstrate all of the KSAs for this position, and these KSAs are clearly documented in my resume/application.
 B. No, I CANNOT demonstrate ALL of the KSA for this position.
ALTHOUGH NOT REQUIRED, ITS HIGHLY RECOMMENDED THAT APPLICANTS COMPLETE THEIR RESUME' USING THE USAJOBS RESUME' BUILDER.

Resume Reminder - Your resume must include your contact information (phone/email) and must include the following information for each job listed:
(1.) Employer's Name
(2.) Employer's City, State
(3.) Job title (if a federal job, separate by grade level(s))
(4.) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008 or 06/07-04/08)
(5.) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week for part-time schedules...i.e. 32 hours per week, 20 hours per week, etc.
(6.) Duties (be as detailed as possible) Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we can fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. Details of your experience and clearly document your ability to demonstrate the KSAs of grade level you are applying to. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications
6. I have read and understand the requirements for a complete resume. Failure to follow the instruction for a complete resume will result in NOT being referred.

 A. Yes, I understand the required information that must be included in my resume, employer information, job title, dates worked, hours worked each week, and duties performed.
 B. No, I did not read or following the instructions that outlined a complete resume for this vacancy. I understand failure to follow the instruction for a complete resume will result in NOT being referred
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected