Position Title
Supervisory Criminal Investigator (Resident Agent in Charge)
Agency
Veterans Affairs, Inspector General
Announcement Number
25-VAOIG-12800817 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 12, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current VAOIG employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current VAOIG employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current VAOIG employee serving on a VRA appointment.



 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current VAOIG employee who currently holds (or have you previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Phoenix, AZ
 B. San Diego, CA
 C. Detroit, MI
 D. Minneapolis, MN
 E. Cleveland, OH
 F. Nashville, TN
 G. Seattle, WA
 H. Spokane, WA
2. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Would you like the opportunity to be considered for similar positions that require the same knowledge, skills and abilities?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
5. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
7. If you have completed (FLETC) please state where and when you have attended a Criminal Investigator Training Program (CITP) at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) or an equivalent basic criminal investigation training course, such as FBI, USPIS, CID, etc.
If no, type: N/A
8.

Incumbents selected for Criminal Investigator positions are covered under special law enforcement provisions. This requires that applicants not exceed the maximum age for entry. The date immediately preceding an applicants 37th birthday is the final date for selection. The age restriction does not apply if you served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement officer (FLEO) position covered by special civil service retirement provisions, including early or mandatory retirement.

If you are not subject to the age restriction because you have previously served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement officer (FLEO) position as described above, you must submit an SF 50 (or equivalent documentation) showing service in a covered civilian law enforcement. OR If you are not subject to the age restriction because you are a preference eligible veteran, you must submit appropriate veterans documentation to establish that you are eligible for veteran's preference in order to waive the age requirements for this position.

Will you have reached your 37th birthday by the closing date of this announcement?

 A. I will NOT have reached my 37th birthday by the close of this announcement.
 B. I am not subject to the age restriction because I served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement officer (FLEO) position as described above.
 C. I am a preference eligible veteran and am not subject to the requirements above.
 D. I will be 37 or older by the close date of this announcement. I am not a preference eligible veteran and have not previously served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement (FLEO) position.
9.

Medical Requirements: The selectee must pass a pre-appointment physical examination and meet the physical requirements for this position as required by this agency. The duties of this position require moderate to arduous physical exertion involving walking and standing, use of firearms, and exposure to inclement weather. Manual dexterity with comparatively free motion of finger, wrist, elbow, shoulder, hip, and knee joints is required. Arms, hands, legs, and feet must be sufficiently intact and functioning in order that applicants may perform the duties satisfactorily. Sufficiently good vision and hearing are required to perform the duties satisfactorily. Because the duties of this position are exacting, responsible, and sometimes performed under trying conditions, the selectee must possess emotional and mental stability. Any physical condition that would cause the selectee to be a hazard to himself/herself, or others is disqualifying.

Do you meet the physical requirements as described above?

 A. Yes, I possess the requirements listed above.
 B. I do not possess the requirements listed above.
10. Please choose one of the following so that we may determine your eligibility.
 A. I am a current permanent VA or VAOIG employee with competitive status.
 B. I am a VA or VAOIG employee currently serving on a Veterans' Recruitment Appointment (VRA).
 C. I am eligible for the Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP).
 D. I do not meet any of the above eligibility criteria.
Performance Appraisal
1. As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal which includes the final rating. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so. If you do not provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration. Type "yes" in the text box below if you are providing a performance appraisal meeting the above requirements with your application. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application, please provide a reason in the text box below. (This is required of all applicants regardless of prior federal service. "N/A" is not considered an acceptable response.)
Assessment 1
Specialized experience is one full year of experience at the GS-13 level, or equivalent that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position. Specialized experience is:

- Conducting or leading criminal and civil investigations involving fraud or public corruption.


1. Select the answer that describes your experience as it directly relates to the specialized experience statement. Carefully review your application and ensure that your response is supported by your resume.
 A. I have one full year or more of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.
 B. I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.
2. This experience must be clearly documented in your resume, indicate where we can find it to ensure you receive proper credit. (limit 250 characters)
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. Have you successfully completed the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) Criminal Investigation Training Program (or another equivalent Federal Law Enforcement Training Program)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Please state where and when you have attended a Criminal Investigator Training Program (CITP) at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) or an equivalent basic criminal investigation training course, such as FBI, USPIS, CID, etc.? (limit 250 characters)
5. Select all of the law enforcement activities with which you have experience.
 A. Making arrests
 B. Conducting physical surveillance
 C. Conducting consensual monitoring or other electronic surveillance
 D. Being an Affiant in a search warrant
 E. Being an Affiant in an arrest warrant
 F. Participating in the execution of search warrants
 G. Acting in an undercover capacity in a criminal investigation
 H. Developing Informants whose activities lead to arrest
 I. Drafting and serving subpoenas
 J. Conducting employee misconduct investigations
 K. Conducting fraud investigations
 L. Case agent in bribery or public corruption investigations
 M. Case agent in investigations in which the subject is a high-ranking agency official
 N. Testifying in court and/or administrative hearings
 O. None of the above
6. Select the response that describes your experience with law enforcement/criminal justice techniques, procedures, and practices.


 A. I have led investigations involving multi-jurisdictional, multi-agency, and multi-defendant cases.
 B. I have applied law enforcement techniques and procedures by serving as an investigator in undercover operations, surveillance, obtaining search warrants, and conducting searches.
 C. I have obtained search and seizure records at the Federal, State, or Local levels and made arrests of violators and provided testimony as a witness before grand juries.
 D. None of the above.
7. Choose all of the statements that describe your experience as a Criminal Investigator.
 A. I have experience with investigative policies and procedures.
 B. I have participated in investigations of government programs and operations.
 C. I have experience conducting inspections of investigative offices.
 D. I have experience providing advice and assistance to staff in utilizing appropriate investigative techniques and applying recognized investigative standards.
 E. I have experience in planning and coordinating the work of an organization or major organizational segment, providing advice, leadership and training in carrying out investigative and support activities.
 F. I have experience analyzing and determining which laws/regulations apply to individual investigations and develop investigative plans based on the potential violations of criminal/administrative laws and regulations.
 G. None of the above.
8. Choose all of the statements that describe your experience working with fraud investigations.
 A. I have experience with fraud investigative policies and procedures.
 B. I have participated in procurement/contract fraud/health care fraud investigations.
 C. I have experience conducting investigations of acquisition and/or contract management offices.
 D. I have experience developing and maintaining Fraud investigative policies and procedures.
 E. I have experience in planning and coordinating the work of an organization or major organizational segment, providing advice, leadership and training in carrying out bribery, contract, or embezzlement investigative and support activities.
 F. None of the above.
9. Choose the statement that describes your experience in establishing and maintaining effective working relations outside of the organization.
 A. I have no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have maintained relationships with members of other work units within and outside my organization who have diverse needs, assessed their needs, and provided information to them. I have resolved routine and non-routine problems, questions, or complaints.
 C. I have developed and maintained relationships with interest groups with diverse needs, anticipated and assessed their needs, and provided information to them. I have resolved routine and non-routine problems, questions, or complaints.
10. Select all of the verbal communication activities that you have routinely performed in your employment.
 A. Conducting subject/witness interviews.
 B. Presenting investigative status and other investigative matters to senior agency officials.
 C. Providing oral training presentations.
 D. Providing operational briefings to other members of a task force or special operations team.
 E. Providing advice, guidance or direction to investigators of lower grades on policy directives or procedures.
 F. Successfully negotiating for the acceptance of new policies and/or procedures.
 G. Serving as mediator in discussions between varying groups or individuals with opposing opinions and/or goals.
 H. Negotiating budget proposals.
 I. Testifying in court and/or Grand Jury hearings.
 J. None of the above.
11. Please choose all of the statements that describe your experience with communicating in writing.
 A. I have written responses to requests for information.
 B. I have written investigative work products, such as reports of investigation, memorandums of interview, comprehensive reports of investigation, and other significant reports.
 C. I have written policies, procedures, training manuals, briefing papers and/or other technical materials.
 D. I have explained in writing the application of laws, regulations, precedents, covering legal actions, or I have written congressional testimony that presented sensitive or controversial information.
 E. I have written budget proposals or justifications.
 F. I have no experience in performing this task.
12. Select the choice that describes your experience as a team leader coordinating the work of other team members based on priorities, requirements of the task, and capabilities of the members.
 A. I have no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had some periodic experience in assigning work as a team leader or an acting supervisor.
 C. I have had on-going experience as the manager of a large program/project in assigning work to others and adjusting those assignments based on changing priorities and demonstrated skills of program/project members.
 D. I have experience as a supervisor in assigning program and project responsibilities to subordinate employees.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
13. Do you have experience providing guidance to subordinates or team members on criminal investigations?
 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Please choose all of the statements that describe your highest level of experience developing, leading, directing, and motivating a diverse investigative staff taking into account individual goals, values, and sensitivities.
 A. I have provided broad guidance to people to prioritize work and then accomplish it in a timely, satisfactory manner.
 B. I have led, supervised and managed professional and administrative staff in the design and delivery of programs and projects.
 C. I have led a large, multi-layered workforce of widely varying occupations and experience levels.
 D. I have led a management evaluation or assessment team to provide assistance on organizational programs.
 E. As a senior staff member, I have served as acting supervisor on occasion, and assisted the supervisor in developing and leading others.
 F. I have led, directed and motivated team members to accomplish specific projects.
 G. I have not performed any of the above tasks.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected