Position Title
Financial Analyst
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12805798 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 1, 2025 to Wednesday, October 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Financial Analyst position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.


1.
Which of the following do you possess?
 A Master's degree or higher in finance, business administration, economics, accounting, insurance, engineering, mathematics, banking and credit, law, real estate operations, statistics, or other finance related field from an accredited college or university.
 At least 2 years of specialized experience performing financial analysis and evaluation work.
 An equivalent combination of education and specialized experience.
 None of the above.


2.
How many years of work experience do you have developing procedures, techniques, and controls for performing financial and operational analysis functions of budget estimates, financial and operating statements, and special reports?
 I have 10+ years of experience as described above.
 I have 7 – 10 years of experience as described above.
 I have 4 – 6 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 4 years of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have using Microsoft Office Programs (e.g., Word, Excel, Power Point, Outlook) to analyze financial data?
 I have 4+ years of experience as described above.
 I have 2 – 4 years of experience as described above.
 I have 1 – 2 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have analyzing and preparing clear, concise and technically sound reports related to financial analysis?
 I have 4+ years of experience as described above.
 I have 2 – 4 years of experience as described above.
 I have 1 – 2 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above.
 I have no experience with the above.


5.
Do you have experience using financial management system(s) SAP or Oracle?
 I have experience with both SAP and Oracle.
 I have experience with SAP only.
 I have experience with Oracle only.
 I have no experience as described above.


6.
How many years of experience do you have with accounting and/or financial analysis functions?
 I have 4+ years of experience with Non-appropriated Fund (NAF) as described above.
 I have 4+ years of experience as described above, but no specific Non-appropriated Fund (NAF) experience.
 I have 2 to 4 years of experience with Non-appropriated Fund (NAF) as described above.
 I have 2 to 4 years of experience as described above, but no specific Non-appropriated Fund (NAF) experience.
 I have less than 1 years of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙