Position Title
SUPERVISORY LAW ENFORCEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS SPECIALIST
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
USBP-IMP-12769011-HH Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 29, 2025 to Tuesday, August 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-9 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-9 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-9 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-11 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
2. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
4. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
5.

All newly appointed, first-time CBP supervisors are required to complete the mandatory leadership training. The Office of Training and Development will schedule eligible supervisors to attend within the first 90 days of appointment. All newly appointed, first time permanent supervisors shall attain the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to successfully perform their supervisory responsibilities by completing required leadership training in accordance with current agency policy.

NOTE: This training may be waived if previously completed.

Do you acknowledge that you have read and understand the above requirement, including current or former first time supervisors who have previously completed the mandatory training and will not be required to retake the course?

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
Assessment 1
The following question determines whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. Please review the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following statements best describes your experience and/or education to qualify for the GS-11 grade level?
 A. I have a least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes utilizing a variety of law enforcement databases and information systems, video/remote sensor data, geospatial information to collect and analyze tactical intelligence and produce intelligence reports; identifying threats and quickly relaying intelligence information, reports, and support to numerous federal, state, municipal, tribal and international law enforcement agencies.
 B. I have successfully completed three or more years of full-time graduate education or a doctoral (or higher) degree or an LL.M. in an appropriate discipline from an accredited college or university.  I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 C. I have a combination of excess of two or more years of full-time graduate education or a Master’s (or higher) degree from an accredited college or university or an LL.B. or J.D and experience as defined in the qualifications section of this announcement, that when converted into percentages and combined, totals at least 100%.
 D. I do not possess the specialized experience and/or education described above.
The following questions rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
2. Indicate the extent of your experience providing technical and administrative supervision to subordinates.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have provided technical and administrative assistance to co-workers in my work unit.
 C. I have served as a team lead, providing technical and administrative assistance to my team.
 D. I have served as a supervisor or acting supervisor, providing technical and administrative supervision to my work unit.
3. Indicate the extent of your experience reviewing work products of subordinates and accepting, rejecting, or amending work.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have peer-reviewed work products of subordinates and made recommendations for accepting, rejecting, or amending work.
 C. I have had experience, gained as a supervisor or acting supervisor, in reviewing work products of subordinates and accepting, rejecting, or amending their work.
4. Indicate the extent of your experience resolving complaints and grievances from employees.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had experience resolving routine complaints from individual employees.
 C. I have had experience in resolving serious complaints from individual employees as well as groups of employees.
 D. I have had extensive experience in resolving serious complaints and formal grievances from individual employees as well as groups of employees.
5. Indicate the extent of your experience monitoring the work environment to prevent instances of prohibited discrimination and/or harassment.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have gathered background information/data in preparation of reporting prohibited discrimination and/or harassment in my work unit.
 C. I have analyzed information/data and made recommendations to prevent instances of prohibited discrimination and/or harassment.
 D. I have served as a supervisor or acting supervisor making recommendations, and implementing actions, based on data provided to me by my subordinates, to prevent instances of prohibited discrimination and/or harassment.
6. Indicate the extent of your experience interviewing and evaluating candidates and making recommendations for selection.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have informally provided recommendations on employees, noting their strengths and weaknesses.
 C. I have participated in ranking panels or have conducted structured interviews or their equivalents.
 D. I have interviewed candidates, evaluated applications, and made recommendations for selection to selecting officials.
 E. I have developed and applied evaluation and selection processes (interview questions, application review, and reference process) and have made recommendations for selections or have trained others to make recommendations for selections for a variety of positions.
7. Indicate the extent of your experience inspiring, motivating, or guiding others toward accomplishment of goals.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had limited experience, gained primarily as a team leader or acting supervisor, in inspiring, motivating, or guiding others toward the accomplishment of specific goals assigned to the team.
 C. I have had extensive experience, gained as a supervisor or manager, inspiring, motivating, or guiding others toward the accomplishment of goals by monitoring their work and providing guidance, training, or direction as needed.
8. Select the choice which best describes the extent of your experience in and responsibility for employee training.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have been responsible for providing informal on-the-job training to peers and subordinates.
 C. In addition to providing informal on-the-job training to peers and subordinates, I have recommended different types of training that would benefit the work unit.
 D. I have identified training needs and worked to develop trainings to improve the efficiency and quality of the work directed.
9. Select the choice that best describes your experience in working in or leading multi-functional teams.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have participated as a team member on a multi-functional team, receiving task assignments and project goals from my supervisor or team leader.
 C. I have served as a team lead of a multi-functional team, communicating task assignments and project goals to team members and monitoring progress.
 D. I have led several multi-functional teams, ensuring that team members met project goals and deadlines and evaluating individual team member performance.
10. Indicate the extent of your experience setting and adjusting priorities and deadlines.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have made minor adjustments to my work priorities and schedule to accommodate planned or expected changes or to comply with new policies and procedures.
 C. I have made moderate adjustments to my work priorities to accommodate occasional and temporary changes in the office or in project resources, goals, or deadlines.
 D. I have made extensive adjustments to my work priorities and schedules to accommodate sudden major changes, problems, or setbacks. I have rearranged project deadlines in response to such circumstances, and communicated the downstream effects to stakeholders.
11. Indicate the extent of your experience analyzing and communicating actionable information.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have analyzed information given to me and, with the assistance of a team lead or manager, determined if the information was actionable.
 C. I have independently received information and determined whether it was actionable. I have communicated the information to my superiors.
 D. I have analyzed and communicated actionable information and recommended a course of action based on the information.
12. Indicate the extent of your experience using analytical and evaluative methods/concepts to identify significant sources of information.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have used textbook analytical and evaluative methods/concepts to identify significant sources of information.
 C. I have used complex analytical and evaluative methods/concepts to identify significant sources of information.
 D. I have created my own analytical and evaluative methods/concepts to identify significant sources of information.
 E. I have served as a supervisor training employees on analytical and evaluative methods/concepts to identify significant sources of information. I have provided feedback to improve methods/concepts created by subordinates.
13. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of information systems used to collect and analyze data to produce reports used to predict, target, detect, and disrupt illegal activities (e.g., NCIC, Automated Targeting System, CCDI, SEVIS).

 A. I have no knowledge of information systems used to collect and analyze data to produce reports used to predict, target, detect, and disrupt illegal activities.
 B. I have basic knowledge of information systems used to collect and analyze data to produce reports used to predict, target, detect, and disrupt illegal activities (e.g., NCIC, Automated Targeting System, CCDI, SEVIS).
 C. I have a working knowledge of information systems used to collect and analyze data to produce reports used to predict, target, detect, and disrupt illegal activities (e.g., NCIC, Automated Targeting System, CCDI, SEVIS).
 D. I have expert knowledge of information systems used to collect and analyze data to produce reports used to predict, target, detect, and disrupt illegal activities (e.g., NCIC, Automated Targeting System, CCDI, SEVIS).
14. Indicate the extent of your experience gathering and analyzing data and/or fact finding from various sources (e.g., databases, internal programs, online research) to direct and advise personnel.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have gathered data from various sources (e.g., databases, internal programs, online research) that others have analyzed.
 C. I have gathered and analyzed data from various sources (e.g., databases, internal programs, online research), but did not use the information to direct or advise personnel.
 D. I have gathered and analyzed data from various sources (e.g., databases, internal programs, online research) and made suggestions to my team lead or supervisor on how to direct and advise personnel.
 E. I have directed and advised personnel using information gathered and analyzed from various sources (e.g., databases, internal programs, online research).
15. Indicate the extent of your experience resolving jurisdictional issues.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in my work unit to gather and analyze data to resolve normal jurisdictional issues.
 C. I have gathered, analyzed, and prepared all pertinent information to resolve normal jurisdictional issues.
 D. I have worked on a joint task force and resolved complex jurisdictional issues through coordination efforts.
 E. I have served as a supervisor on a joint task force and resolved unusually complex jurisdictional issues through extensive coordination efforts.
16. Select the option that best describes your ability to communicate information orally with individuals at all levels of federal and private sector organizations.
 A. I have informally communicated information with individuals within my own work group (e.g., informal discussions).
 B. I have formally communicated information with individuals within my own work group (e.g., structured meetings)
 C. I have prepared formal presentations for individuals within my organization.
 D. I serve as an authority within my organization, and have frequently prepared and made presentations at all levels within my organization as well as to external organizations.
 E. I have had no experience in performing this task
17. Indicate the extent of your experience expressing facts and ideas in writing.
 A. I have written short responses to routine requests for information.
 B. I have written portions of reports, information papers, and other documents (technical and non-technical).
 C. I have independently composed written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, and other complete documents based on study findings and results of analyses.
 D. I have independently completed one or more written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, and other complete documents based on study findings and results of analyses. I have successfully tailored written information to the technical knowledge of my audience.
 E. I have had no experience in performing this task
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected