Position Title
Student Volunteer (Undergrad)
Agency
Executive Office for U.S. Attorneys and the Office of the U.S. Attorneys
Announcement Number
25-MN-12759857-SV Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 9, 2025 to Friday, August 1, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Justice (DOJ). Your response to this assessment questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making screening decisions. This is a DOJ job application system. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this application. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration.
The area of consideration is limited to students who are enrolled in a program and are taking at least half-time academic course load in an accredited school. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.
1. Are you currently enrolled in an educational program with a course load leading to a degree?

 A. Yes, I am currently enrolled in an educational program with a course load leading to a degree.
 B. No, I am not enrolled in an accredited degree program.
2. Please indicate which year of school you are in.

3. Do you currently have at least a half-time academic course load?

 A. Yes, I currently have at least a half-time academic course load.
 B. No, I do not currently have at least a half-time academic course load.
4. Are you currently in good academic standing with your university?

 A. Yes, I am currently in good academic standing.
 B. No, I am not currently in good academic standing.
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
5. Sorting and arranging material for filing and files material in alphabetical, numerical or chronological order.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
6. Answering telephone and referring callers to staff members or taking messages as appropriate.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
7. Operating a copying machine.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
As previously explained, your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration.
8. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.

I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that I will not be considered for employment if I do not respond "Yes" to this certification item.

I understand a comprehensive background investigation, including a check of my credit history and a pre-employment drug screening, is required for this position.

 A. Yes, I certify/understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
You have submitted your answers for the Assessment Questionnaire. If you provided an email address, you will receive a confirmation email upon receipt of the Assessment Questionnaire. Please review the Vacancy Announcement to ensure that you have submitted all necessary supporting documents. Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Justice.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected