Position Title
Laborer (Motor Vehicle Operating)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
NC-1616-NACE-25-12805630-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 29, 2025 to Tuesday, October 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a United States Citizen?

For more information, review Employment of U.S Citizens.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.  
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
When you applied to this job, did you have any engagement with a National Park Service (NPS) Recruiter?
 A. No. I did not have any engagement with an NPS recruiter.
 B. Yes. I attended an NPS Federal Resume Webinar.
 C. Yes. At a virtual or in-person recruitment or job fair.
 D. Yes. I received an email from an NPS Recruiter.


Assessment 1
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the minimum qualification requirements for the Laborer (Motor Vehicle Operating) WG-3502-05.


For the questions below, please select from A through E to indicate the skill level that you possess for each task listed. The questions were developed based on the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies needed to perform the work of this position. It is important that your application package submitted, including a resume or application form, clearly shows how you possess the experience and skills levels you claim in this questionnaire. Each of your responses must be clearly supported by your education, training, and/or specific work experience you describe in your application packet submitted for this position (application form or resume, transcripts, list and description of training completed and/or other items you submit). If not, your score will be lowered or you will be found not qualified. The information you provide will be verified. Any exaggeration of your experience, false statements, or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for rating you ineligible, not hiring you, or for firing you after you begin work.


Minimum Qualifications Requirements for the Laborer (Motor Vehicle Operating).


Ability to do the work without more than normal supervision (Screen Out)


1.
Do you have the ability to do the work the Laborer (Motor Vehicle Operating) WG-3502-05 without more than normal supervision?
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex duties as a Laborer (Motor Vehicle Operating). I am skilled to perform work independently and assisting journey-level , or other higher graded workers; my experience includes work such as Cares for and maintains equipment and working tools; Loads and unloads supplies and materials from trucks, trailers, dollies, etc; Moves furniture, removes and sets signs, paints picnic tables and signs, rakes and waters lawns, trims trees and shrubbery, picks up litter, and cleans and repairs fire pits; Digs ditches and trenches with pick and shovel where soil is hard and compact and must grade or slope; occasionally breaks up pavement, soil, or concrete; mixes and pours concrete, asphalt, and hot/cold mix; fills and levels holes in damaged roads and/or Cuts trees and heavy vegetation with axe, chainsaw or powered brush cutters; stacks heavy logs, lumber, and sacks of cement, etc.
 I can independently perform most of the tasks listed in A under general supervision subject to occasional inspection. I can perform some of the tasks listed in A under general supervision of a journey-level worker who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have worked as a Laborer (Motor Vehicle Operating). I have assisted in my experience includes work such as Cares for and maintains equipment and working tools; Loads and unloads supplies and materials from trucks, trailers, dollies, etc; Moves furniture, removes and sets signs, paints picnic tables and signs, rakes and waters lawns, trims trees and shrubbery, picks up litter, and cleans and repairs fire pits; Digs ditches and trenches with pick and shovel where soil is hard and compact and must grade or slope; occasionally breaks up pavement, soil, or concrete; mixes and pours concrete, asphalt, and hot/cold mix; fills and levels holes in damaged roads and/or Cuts trees and heavy vegetation with axe, chainsaw or powered brush cutters; stacks heavy logs, lumber, and sacks of cement, etc. My tasks were observed in progress and upon completion to make sure they were properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple Laborer (Motor Vehicle Operating) tasks, or I have received basic training
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


Valid state or District of Columbia Driver's License Requirement (Condition of Employment).


2.
At the time of appointment, the incumbent of this position must possess and be able to maintain a valid state or District of Columbia Driver's License. Please select the response below that best describes how you meet this requirement.
 Yes, I currently possess and will be able to maintain a valid state or District of Columbia Driver's License. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your DL.
 No, I do not currently possess a valid state or District of Columbia Driver's License and I will not be able to obtain one by the time of appointment.


Verification Statement


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙