Position Title
Health Technician - Audiology
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSU-12816163-26-MC Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 17, 2025 to Monday, January 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
4
5
6


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Health Technician - Audiology GS-640 position with the Veterans Health Administration. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.


Basic Requirements


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: Health Technician - Audiology candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by 38 U.S.C. § 7403 (f).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Experience and/or Education: Select the appropriate answer based on your level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. (A transcript must be submitted with your application if you are basing all or part of your qualifications on education).

NOTE: Foreign Education: To be creditable, education completed outside the U.S. must have been submitted to a private organization that specializes in the interpretation of foreign educational credentials and such education must have been deemed at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. programs.
 I have six months of experience comparable to the next lower level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities related to the duties of the position to be filled.
 I have completed two academic years above high school leading to an associate degree or a bachelor's degree with at least 12 semester hours in courses related to the position.
 I have an equivalent combination of experience and education such as three months of experience comparable to the next lower level and one year above high school with a minimum of 6 semester hours related to the health care industry.
 I do not have the experience and/or education described above.


Grade Specific Requirements


3.
GS 5 Experience or Education: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, you must also have one year of experience equivalent to the GS-4 level. The required specialized experience for this position includes but is not limited to: assisting the audiologist with patient assessment and treatment; adhering to the audiology clinic policy and standard operating procedures for infection control and cleaning, sterilization and disposition of reusable medical equipment (RME); maintaining a comprehensive supply and equipment tracking system to include monitoring stock of RME and consumable items; ensuring proper inventory levels to complete the daily tasks; maintaining proper levels of mailing/shipping supplies; preparing mailing and shipping requests for items including but not limited to hearing aid and hearing assistive technology repairs, ear mold orders and return for credit items; and maintaining loaner hearing aid inventory.

OR

Successful completion of four academic years above high school leading to a bachelor's degree with at least 24 semester hours in courses related to the position or a bachelor's degree in a major field of study appropriate to the functions of the occupation. 

Select the appropriate answer based on your level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. (A transcript must be submitted with your application if you are basing all or part of your qualifications on education).
 I have one year of experience equivalent to the GS-4 level.
 I have completed four academic years above high school leading to a bachelor's degree as described above.
 I do not have the experience and/or education as described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
GS 5 Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs): At this level, candidates must also demonstrate the following KSAs:
Knowledge of anatomy of the head and neck.
Ability to communicate clearly orally and in writing.
Knowledge of basic hearing assistive technologies.
Knowledge of basic infection control procedures and guidelines.
Ability to maintain stock and supply level inventories.
Skill in using basic computer software such as email, spreadsheet and word processing.
Do you meet the KSAs as described above?
 Yes
 No


5.
GS 6 Experience: You must have a completion of one year of progressive experience and/or experience equivalent to the GS 5 grade level. The required specialized experience for this position includes but is not limited to: answering and screening calls from patients regarding audiology needs; assisting the audiologist with patient assessment and treatment; assisting with walk-in appointments; processing incoming devices from patients with concerns related to their hearing aids or hearing assistive technology; and preparing and charging (if required) hearing aids and assistive devices for delivery.

Do you meet the experience as described above?
 Yes
 No


6.
GS 6 Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs): At this level, candidates must also demonstrate the following KSAs:
Knowledge of normal and abnormal ear anatomy.
Knowledge of hearing physiology and function to educate patients and families.
Knowledge of hearing aids, hearing assistive technology, hearing aid manufacturers and manufacturer software.
Ability to solve problems or make decisions regarding hearing aid, hearing assistive technology and patient care, consistent with the documented and co-signed plan of care under the supervision of an audiologist.
Ability to prepare patients for testing procedures.
Ability to document and code patient procedures.
Do you meet the KSAs as described above?
 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title
Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held

Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

TRANSCRIPT REMINDER- If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙