Position Title
Toolmaker
Agency
U.S. Mint
Announcement Number
25-MINT-12792653 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 3, 2025 to Monday, September 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency covered by an OPM Interchange agreement that conveys noncompetitive eligibility?

For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=InterchangeAgreementsWithOtherMeritSystems

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following merit promotion categories?
Current Federal civilian employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current Excepted service employee covered by an Interchange Agreement
Former Federal employee with Reinstatement eligibility
Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA)
Current Federal employee serving on a VRA appointment
Land Management Employee eligible under Public Law 114-47
Other competitive category not listed above (you must submit proof of eligibility)
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you eligible to be appointed under the Military Spouse Noncompetitive Appointing Authority based on any of the following categories?
You are the spouse of an active duty member of the Armed Forces.
You are the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs.
You are the widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status, and you have not re-married.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources. (https://www.usajobs.gov/Veterans)

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a former federal employee that has been separated for at least one full year and is eligible to be non-competitively reinstated to a higher grade or full-performance level than which you left federal employment?(Note: you MUST provide:  1) a copy of your separation SF-50 (the "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2"); AND 2) the last performance appraisal you received from your federal employment which shows at least a fully successful rating.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Do you currently hold (or have you previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you eligible under any other miscellaneous appointing authority not listed thus far, such as (but not all inclusive to):
Postal Career Service Employee;
Postal Rate Commission Employee;
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; 
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee; or 
Foreign overseas employee or eligible family member of former overseas employee
 
For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=MiscellaneousAuthoritiesNotRegulated .  
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

For more information on Foreign overseas employment please review the following: https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#NontemporaryForeignService or https://www.state.gov/global-community-liaison-office/family-member-employment/family-member-employment-in-the-d-c-area/non-competitive-eligibility-nce/#NCE5




 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you eligible for consideration as a Peace Corps, VISTA, or Action volunteer?  If you select this option, you are required to provide acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility by submitting proof of employment from the appropriate agency with your completed application.

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions and you:

• recently separated (within the past 3 years)
• are a disabled veteran
• served on active duty during a war, campaign or expedition OR
• received an Armed Forces Service Medal

If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. If claiming disability preference, provide the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other
3. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
4. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
6. Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.
7. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. Please indicate your highest level of experience pertaining to Toolmaking operations.
 A. I fabricate, overhaul, and repair die sets and make decisions regarding the level of repair needed with only minimal supervision.
 B. I fabricate, overhaul, and repair dies sets with instruction from the supervisor on the level of repairs required.
 C. I fabricate, overhaul, and repair die sets without more than normal supervision.
 D. I have studied or read about die sets and their use.
 E. None of the above.
2. Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties. (limit 250 characters)
3. Please choose all the duties you have experience or training on.
 A. Setting up tools for operation
 B. Evaluating performance of tools
 C. Machining to tolerances of +/- .0001
 D. Determining the selection of proper tooling
 E. None of the above.
4. Please choose all the duties you have experience or training on.
 A. Making necessary adjustments to machine tools
 B. Maintaining satisfactory production rates and quality work
 C. Maintaining daily logs on CNC equipment
 D. None of the above.
5. Choose all of the following machine tools and related machines you have demonstrated experience and knowledge of.
 A. Engine lathe
 B. Milling machines
 C. CNC turning centers
 D. CNC milling machines
 E. None of the above.
6. Choose all of the following machine tools and related machines you have demonstrated experience and knowledge of.
 A. Cylindrical grinders ID OD
 B. Surface grinders
 C. Drill presses
 D. Power band saw
 E. None of the above.
7. Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties. (limit 250 characters)
8. Please indicate your experience in designing and manufacturing tooling to solve production problems, including gauging equipment.
 A. I have designed, built, and manufactured fixtures, jigs, or holding devises for milling, drilling, or grinding of parts or assemblies in a production operation. I did this work independently with no supervision.
 B. I have used blueprints or plans to build, or manufacture fixtures, jigs, or holding devises for the milling, drilling, or grinding of parts or assemblies in a production operation. I did this work independently with no supervision.
 C. I have used fixtures, jigs, or holding devises for the milling, drilling, or grinding of parts or assemblies in a production operation. I did this work independently with no supervision.
 D. I have studied or read about fixtures, jigs, or holding devises in a theory class or reference books.
 E. None of the above.
9. Please select all that you have experience in setting up and operating CNC machine tools.
 A. Uses Computer Aided Machining (CAM) programs to write and edit programs for CNC machines for the manufacture of parts or assemblies.
 B. Write or create CNC machine programs using G and M codes for the manufacture of parts or assemblies.
 C. Uses advance shop mathematics to figure dimensions and part geometry to program CNC machines.
 D. Write or create CNC machine programs using conversational programing to manufacture parts or assemblies.
 E. None of the above.
10. Please select all that you have experience in setting up and operating CNC machine tools.
 A. Edit or modify CNC programs.
 B. Uses the machinerys hand book, charts, tables and, reference materials to determine proper program speeds feeds, and cutting tools.
 C. Sets tools into tool changers and sets tool length offsets.
 D. None of the above.
11. Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties. (limit 250 characters)
12. Please select each of the following you have had experience performing.
 A. Directing work of personnel.
 B. Estimate material or manpower needs for a specific job.
 C. Assumed technical responsibility for assignments from initial planning to completion.
 D. None of the above.
13. Please select each of the following you have had experience performing.
 A. Repairing and maintaining tools and dies.
 B. Accomplish assigned work with little direction from supervisor.
 C. Complete design improvements using CAD
 D. None of the above.
14. Please indicate your ability to interpret instructions and specifications on different types of equipment, systems, procedures or techniques using shop drawings and/or blueprints.
 A. I read and interpret blueprints for tooling and gauging. I work with engineers and suggest changes to geometric dimensions and tolerances to ensure successful fabrication of tooling and gauging. I am called on to help others employees interpret tool and gauging drawings.
 B. I read and interpret blueprints for tooling and gauging. I assist other employees in interpretation of the drawings.
 C. I read and interpret blueprints and drawing.
 D. I do not read or interpret blueprints and drawings.
15. Please indicate your highest level of experience in relaying and explaining instructions to other employees using shop drawings and/or blueprints.
 A. I read and interpret blueprints for tooling and gauging. I work with engineers and suggest changes to geometric dimensioning and tolerancing to ensure successful fabrication of tooling and gauging. I am called on to help others toolmakers interpret tool and gauging drawings.
 B. I read and interpret blueprints for tooling and gauging. I assist other toolmakers in interpretation of the drawings.
 C. I read and interpret blueprints and drawing.
 D. I do not read or interpret blueprints and drawings.
16. Please select the print reading and interpreting skills that you have.
 A. I have the ability to read and interpret multi view drawings.
 B. I have experience working from drawings with metric dimensions and symbols.
 C. None of the above.
17. Please select the print reading and interpreting skills that you have.
 A. I have had training in geometric dimension and tolerance.
 B. I use trigonometry to find angles and tangent points on drawings.
 C. I use Computer Aided Drafting (CAD) programs to produce drawings and find dimensions.
 D. None of the above.
18. Select all of the layout tools you have experience with.
 A. Surface plate
 B. Height gage
 C. Cadillac gage
 D. Snap gages
 E. None of the above.
19. Select all of the layout tools you have experience with.
 A. Micrometers
 B. Indicators
 C. Jo blocks
 D. Gage pins
 E. None of the above.
20. Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties. (limit 250 characters)
21. Which of the following materials have you worked with, can you identify, and know the characteristics of?
 A. Alloy steel
 B. Tool steel
 C. Mild steel
 D. Stainless steel
 E. None of the above.
22. Which of the following materials have you worked with, can you identify, and know the characteristics of?
 A. Bronze
 B. Aluminum
 C. Plastics
 D. Composite
 E. None of the above.
23. Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties. (limit 250 characters)
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected