Position Title
HR SPEC (INFORMATION SYSTEMS/MILITARY) (TITLE 5)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-12699887-AF-25-008 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 28, 2025 to Friday, August 1, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
9
11
2. Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you currently serving on Active Duty? If, yes you must provide a "current DD 214 or Statement/Memo from your Command". The statement of service must provide the branch of service, rate/rank, all dates of service, the expected date of discharge and anticipated character of service (Honorable, General, etc).

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Requirements
1. Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 A. Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 NC National Guard employee (Title 32 (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5) working at (145th FSS) (See last SF50).
 B. Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 NC National Guard employee (Title 32 (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5) working at a NC National Guard unit/activity, other than (145th FSS) (See last SF50).
 C. Area 3 - Within the NC National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 D. Area 4 - I am currently a Federal Employee "not" employed by the NC National Guard.
 E. Area 5 - I am currently a U.S. Citizens, NOT employed as a Federal Employee.
 F. None of the Areas listed above apply to my current status.
Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.   

1. Select the one statement that best describes the General Experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a Human Resources Specialist.
 A. I HAVE a valid understanding of the basic principles and concepts of 0201 occupational series at the GS-09 level.
 B. I DO NOT HAVE a valid understanding of the basic principles and concepts of 0201 occupational series at the GS-09 level.
2. Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a Human Resources Specialist.
 A. I HAVE 1) at least one year of specialized experiences at the GS-07 level or the equivalent which provided a working knowledge of National Guard missions, organizations, and federal civilian or military personnel programs, 2) experiences in executing personnel programs and Human Resources Information Systems, (as applicable to the Human Resources Specialist and its position description), 3) experienced in performing personnel program requirements that involve advising supervisors and managers, 4) experiences in career counseling; completing or editing performance evaluations; and, conducting educational and skill development personnel course programs, 5) competent in merit principles, personnel plans, programs, and policies to guide or advise others on their implementation activities; and 6) in applying program policies, directives, publications, and training manuals. Experienced in performance management and productivity programs; or, advising on process improvement, best practices, and performance techniques.
 B. I HAVE 1) at least one year of specialized experiences at the GS-09 level or the equivalent which provided a working knowledge of National Guard missions, organizations, and federal civilian or military personnel programs, 2) experiences in executing personnel programs and Human Resources Information Systems, (as applicable to the Human Resources Specialist and its position description), 3) experienced in performing personnel program requirements that involve advising supervisors and managers, 4) experiences in career counseling; completing or editing performance evaluations; and, conducting educational and skill development personnel course programs, 5) competent in merit principles, personnel plans, programs, and policies to guide or advise others on their implementation activities; and 6) in applying program policies, directives, publications, and training manuals. Experienced in performance management and productivity programs; or, advising on process improvement, best practices, and performance techniques.
 C. I DO NOT have the experience listed above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected