Position Title
Clinical Lab Scientist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSU-12772697-25-TJB Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 29, 2025 to Thursday, August 7, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Clinical Laboratory Scientist - Generalist GS-0644 position with the Veterans Health Administration. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.
Basic Requirements
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. English Language Proficiency: Per VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Chapter 3, Section A, Paragraph 3j: No person will be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C., chapter 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA who is not proficient in written and spoken English.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Education- To qualify for appointment to this position, all applicants must possess:
A bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university.
Do you posses the basic education requirement?
 A. Yes, I have a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university.
 B. No, I do not have a bachelor's degree.
2a. Please complete the following information that best describes your education:

Name of Institution:
Program Name:
Accreditation entity of Institution:
Graduation date (Including Month and Year):
3. Certification: Candidates must meet one of the certification options below.
Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT.
Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT.
Note:
1-Categorical and specialist certifications are not acceptable for CLS Generalist positions or lab sections unrelated to the categorical or specialist certification held.

2-Exception for Non-Certified:

(a) Applicants who do not currently hold valid certification may be hired by VA and actively work toward their certification if they meet one of the routes that makes them eligible to take the MLS certification exam through the ASCP BOC or the MLS certification exam through AMT Certification Agency.
(b) Non-Certified applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for licensure may be given a temporary appointment CLS under the authority of 38 U.S.C. ? 7405(c)(2).
(c) Non-Certified individuals may only provide care under the supervision of a certified CLS at or above the FPL.
(d) Non-Certified individuals may only be appointed at the entry level and may not be promoted/converted until certification is obtained.
(e) Temporary appointments of non-certified CLS may not be extended beyond two (2) years or be converted to a new temporary appointment.
 A. I possess Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT. (A copy of certification is required to be attached to application at time of submitting application for verification).
 B. I posses Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT. (A copy of certification is required to be attached to application at time of submitting application for verification).
 C. I do not possess certification as described above, and understand I may only be considered for entry level or temporary appointment.
3a. Please complete the following information that best describes your education:

Name of Institution:
Program Name:
Accreditation entity of Institution:
Graduation date (Including Month and Year):
Grade Determinations. In addition to the basic requirements for employment, candidates must meet the following grade-determining criteria for placement at grade levels specified.
4. GS- 7 Clinical Laboratory Scientist Grade Determinations: In addition to the basic requirements for employment, candidates must meet the following grade-determining criteria for placement at grade levels specified.

None beyond the basic requirements.

Employee at this level serves in a CLS entry-level position. It is expected that they receive guidance from more experienced staff members and require daily direct supervision.

Do you meet the grade specific requirements for the GS grade level as stated above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. GS- 9 Clinical Laboratory Scientist Grade Determinations: In addition to the basic requirements for employment, candidates must meet the following grade-determining criteria for placement at grade levels specified as a Clinical Laboratory Scientist,

Experience or Education. Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:
 A. I qualify based off of Experience. I have 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade. OR
 B. I qualify based off of Education. I have a Masters degree or 2 years of progressively higher-level graduate education in medical technology or a directly related science.
 C. I do not have the required experience or education as stated above.
6. GS-9 Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):

The following KSAs In addition to the experience or education above are required at the GS-9 grade level for the Clinical Laboratory Scientist:
Knowledge of policies and procedures of clinical laboratory testing.
Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance principles.
Knowledge of laboratory equipment and routine maintenance.
Ability to work as a team member and effectively complete assignments.
Ability to read and interpret written instructions.
Ability to accurately perform pre-analytical, analytical, and post-analytical phases of testing.

Do you possess all of the above KSAs?

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. GS-11 Clinical Laboratory Scientist Grade Determinations:

Experience or Education Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:  Experience. 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level. OR  Education. Must have 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science.
 A. I qualify with Experience. I have 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level. OR
 B. I qualify with Education. I have have 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science. (A copy of transcripts is required to be attached when submitting application for verification).
 C. I do not qualify with experience or education.
8. GS-11 Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):

The following KSAs In addition to the experience or education above are required at the GS-11 grade level for the Clinical Laboratory Scientist:
Knowledge of professional clinical laboratory science principles, practices, concepts, and theories that support sound, independent work.
Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance procedures and principles of performance improvement.
Skill in informatics, laboratory data flow, and laboratory processes.
Ability to maintain, troubleshoot, and repair instrumentation.
Ability to use independent technical judgment to analyze and interpret laboratory results.
Ability to read, interpret, and apply complex written instructions.
Ability to communicate, consult, and interact with other members of the health care team, external relations, customer service, and patient education.
Do you possess all of the above KSA's?

 A. Yes
 B. No
RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible). Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008). Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week). Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy.
Transcripts Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) you must submit a copy of your transcripts (official or unofficial) with your application. Be sure your name, name of the school attended, dates attended, and any degree conferred, or certificate issued is stated on the transcript.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected