Position Title
DEPUTY CHIEF COUNSEL
Agency
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
Announcement Number
25-TTB-12791426-X Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 10, 2025 to Wednesday, September 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other
3. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
5. Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.
Assessment 1
1. Basic Requirements (Attorney-Advisor): Applicants must (1) be a graduate of an accredited law school with an LL.B. or J.D.; (2) be a current member of a bar with a valid license to practice law in a state, territory of the United States, District of Columbia, or Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; and (3) meet all specialized experience requirements as described in the vacancy announcement.
Choose the response that best describes your qualifications for this position.
 A. I am a graduate of an accredited law school with an LL.B. or J.D. I am a current member of a bar, in good standing, with a valid license to practice law in a state, territory of the United States, District of Columbia, or Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and meet all specialized experience requirements as indicated below.
 B. I do not meet the basic requirements for this position as described above.
2. Are you a current active member of a bar with a valid license to practice law in a state or territory of the United States, District of Columbia, or Commonwealth of Puerto Rico?
 A. Yes, active.
 B. Inactive.
 C. No.
3. If you responded yes to the preceding question, please indicate the State, Territory, City and/or Commonwealth in which you are member of the bar of the highest court. You must provide a copy of your Bar certification. (limit 250 characters)
4. For the GS-15: You must have two (2) years of legal experience at the GS-14 level, or equivalent level of difficulty in the Federal service or private sector, that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. Examples of such experience might include independently handling cases involving sensitive or highly visible issues that may contain facts which are difficult to develop and prove or matters of a precedent-setting nature.
Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 A. I have two full years (104 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-14 level as described above.
 B. I do not have two full years of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.
5. Please state the title and dates employed of the position where you acquired the relevant specialized experience. (limit 250 characters)
6. Please provide dates and titles of any job in which you had experience advising senior Government officials, i.e. Senior Executive Service officials or functional equivalents. Make sure your resume includes the subject matter and position/grade of the official advised.

(limit 250 characters)
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
7. Please state if you have experience leading attorneys or senior level employees.

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. If yes, please describe that experience. (limit 250 characters)
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected