Position Title
Wildland Firefighter (Fuels) - Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Bureau of Land Management
Announcement Number
FADHA-25-12761428-CG Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 10, 2025 to Thursday, July 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Career Transition Assistance Plan:  Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced or surplused from the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which I have been or will be separated; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.   
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan: Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am currently in a position at the same grade level or higher than the position being announced; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
7
8
9
survey questions
1. My resume contains the beginning and ending dates (month/year to month/year) and grade level (if federal service) for each period of work experience/employment. I understand failure to adequately include this information may affect my qualification determination for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I consent to the release of information about my ability and fitness for Federal employment by employers, schools, law enforcement agencies, and other individuals and organizations to investigators, human resource specialists, and other authorized employees or representatives of the Federal Government. I understand that for some other sources of information, a separate specific release may be needed, and I may be contacted for such a release at a later date.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I have read the "How to Apply" & "Required Documents" sections and understand that failure to submit any required documents may result in my being found not qualified.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. My resume contains hours worked per week for each position and/or season of experience held. I understand that failure to adequately include this information may affect my qualification determination for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I understand that additional selections may be made from this vacancy, within the same geographical area, by other bureaus from within the DOI, through shared recruiting activities, and my application may be shown to multiple hiring offices. Additional selections for similar positions across the entire Department of the Interior within the local commuting area(s) identified in this vacancy announcement may be made. By applying, I agree to have my application shared with any interested selecting official(s) within the DOI. There is no option to opt-out as my information will not be shared with other hiring agencies outside of the DOI. Applying to this announcement does not replace the need to apply to other job opportunity announcements for which you wish to receive consideration.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. I understand that I must ensure my resume, supporting documents (SF-50 or other official document to verify date of birth), transcripts, fire qualifications (IQCS), etc., are not password protected or contain redacted information that could make my application package ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported in your resume and supporting documents.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. I qualify for the GS-07 because I have one year of specialized wildland fire experience equivalent to the GS-06 level in the Federal service. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience needed to qualify for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I qualify for the GS-08 because I have one year of specialized work experience equivalent to the GS-07 level in the Federal service. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience needed to qualify for this position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I qualify for the GS-09 because I have one year of specialized work experience equivalent to the GS-08 level in the Federal service. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience needed to qualify for this position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I have held, or currently hold, the NWCG qualification or higher: Engine Boss (ENGB) or Crew Boss (CRWB) or Firing Boss (FIRB) or Helicopter Manager(HMGB) AND Incident Command Type 4 (ICT4). I will provide a copy of my IQCS master record or equivalent documentation as instructed in the vacancy announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience, education or training providing long range resource planning, program direction, coordination and evaluation of fuels management and related activities in a field office or similar environment?

 A. I have not had education, training or experience in this task.
 B. I have completed education or training in this task, but have not yet applied this education or training on the job.
 C. I have used professional knowledge in this task on the job. My work in this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed work in this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. Work in this task has been a central or major part of my job. I have routinely performed the work and I have trained others in performance of this work and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this work.
6. Select the statement that best describes your knowledge and experience in natural resource management planning, project management and environmental analysis.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in this field.
 B. I have had education or training in this field, but have not yet applied this education or training on the job.
 C. I have used professional knowledge in this field on the job. My work in this field was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed work in this field as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in this field; or I have trained others working in this field or am normally an individual who is consulted by other professionals to assist them in this field because of my experience.
7. Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience, education, or training in fuels management?

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
8. Select all of the statements that best describe your experience integrating fire and fuels management information with other natural resource management programs.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in this field.
 B. I have had education or training in this field but have not yet applied this education or training on the job.
 C. I have used professional knowledge in this field on the job. My work in this field was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed work in this field as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in this field; or I have trained others working in this field or am normally an individual who is consulted by other professionals to assist them in this field because of my experience.
9. Select the treatments used in fuels reduction and vegetation manipulation listed below that you have knowledge of specification requirements or experience in project design.

 A. Hydro-mulching
 B. Rollerchopping
 C. Hand thinning
 D. Hand piling
 E. Mechanical thinning
 F. Mechanical piling
 G. Broadcast burning
 H. Biomass utilization
 I. Seeding
 J. None of the above
10. Select all of the following automated systems you have experience using:
 A. BEHAVE
 B. WFDSS
 C. FPA
 D. NFPORS
 E. Other office automation software.
 F. None of the above.
11. Identify the prescribed fire/fuels management experience you have applied on the job:

 A. Conduct professional forest or range inventory methods and procedures (e.g., Brown's planar intercept for dead and down fuels; live fuel loading assignments).
 B. Analyze fuel loadings and determine appropriate fuel treatment methods and programming.
 C. Evaluate prescribed burn plans or fire management plans to ensure fire containment is possible and identification of appropriate suppression contingencies if containment is not obtained.
 D. Land use planning and environmental coordination.
 E. None of the above.
12. From the following list of fuels management treatments, identify those in which you have experience implementing.

 A. Pre-commercial thinning
 B. Grinding
 C. Pruning
 D. Lop and scatter
 E. Chaining
 F. Shaded fuel break
 G. Prescribed Fire
 H. Hand Piling
 I. Machine Piling
 J. Chemical treatments
 K. Biological treatments
 L. Slashing
 M. None of the above
13. Indicate your proficiency in vegetative and fuels monitoring study data, including during project implementation, i.e., during prescribed burning operations.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing these tasks.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform these tasks but have not yet performed them on the job.
 C. I have performed these tasks on the job. My work on these tasks was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of a job. I have performed them independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
14. Indicate the level of your experience, education, and training as it relates to working on prescribed burns:

 A. I am considered an expert in performing these tasks; or I have supervised performance of these tasks or am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing these tasks because of my experience.
 B. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of a job. I have performed them independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 C. I have performed these tasks on the job. My work on these tasks was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have had education or training in how to perform this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 E. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
15. Select the statement(s) that reflects your highest level of proficiency.

 A. Knowledge and successful application of processes that regulate function and interaction between ecosystems and their components, including disturbance ecology, success theory, nutrient cycling, plant and soil productivity, and wildlife interactions. Fire ecosystem relationships, effects of fire and altered fire regimes on ecological processes and plant community composition.
 B. Monitoring and evaluation of fuels management treatments and their success in meeting the desired treatment results (effect) and desired outcomes (effectiveness). Developing alternative treatment methods to attain desired conditions.
 C. Evaluation of plant community composition and dynamics and the design of vegetative management prescriptions to meet desired future conditions.
 D. Working collaboratively with publics, local governments, Tribes, and other state and Federal agencies in developing, prioritizing, and implementing effective fuels management programs.
 E. Compliance with legal requirements to include NEPA, Endangered Species Act, FLMPMS, Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, Healthy Forest Restoration Act, and other environmental and land use planning legislation.
 F. None of the Above.
16. Indicate level of experience providing wildland fire suppression or prescribed fire training and guidance to firefighters:
 A. I have informally explained wildland fire safety regulations and safe techniques for wildland firefighting to fire team members.
 B. I have explained fire behavior characteristics and techniques for wildland firefighting and suppression as a part of my job
 C. I have served as an instructor for a variety of fire and aviation related training courses
 D. None of the above
17. Identify the types of contracts with which you have experience.

 A. Service contracts
 B. Timber sale contracts
 C. Stewardship contracts
 D. Special Forest products
 E. Cultural inventory
 F. None of the above
18. I have worked with fuels programs and databases such as: FFI (FEAT/FIREMON Integrated), Interagency Fuel Treatment Decision Support System (IFTDSS), National Fire Plan Operations and Reporting System (NFPORS), Vegetation Treatment Geodatabase (VTRT), and/or ArcGIS software. I have experience with field monitoring methods and forms.

 A. Yes
 B. No
19. Please select the one answer that best describes your experience in using Annual Work Plans or a similar budgetary process to perform workload and performance planning.

 A. I prepare annual budget submissions, work on Annual Work Plans, mid-year and end-of-year reports or perform similar budgetary duties for a diverse prescribed fire program to ensure workload and performance targets are appropriate, reasonable, and implemented.
 B. I prepare annual budget submissions for prescribed fire projects to identify workload and performance goals.
 C. I assist with the preparation of annual budget submissions for a prescribed fire program or projects to identify workload and performance goals.
 D. I have knowledge of annual budget processes for a prescribed fire program or projects.
 E. None of the above.
20. Indicate your level of experience providing input into Resource management plans, fire management plans, monitoring plans, vegetation, and wildlife management plans to ensure the role of fire is considered and effects are accurately displayed.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
21. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected