Position Title
Supervisory Recreation Specialist - Aquatics
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
FTW25-12809108 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 1, 2025 to Saturday, November 1, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
I am willing and able to submit to a pre-employment physical exam prior to employment.
 Yes
 No


2.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 Yes
 No


3.
This position requires selectee to satisfactorily complete all background checks in accordance with PL 101-647 to include National Agency Check with Written Inquiries (NACI). If access to Government computer, databases, and/or systems is required in the performance of duties, the incumbent must pass SF- 86/Eligibility for Secret Clearance upon hire and periodically thereafter as a condition of employment. To obtain a Secret Clearance, selectee must be a U.S. Citizen. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


4.
I am willing and able to acquire professional job-related certifications with the time frame specified in the announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the specialized experience, education, and/or training to qualify for the NAF Supervisory Recreation Specialist (Athletic Program Manager/Aquatics) position.  Failure to meet the basic requirement(s) and/or specialized experience; failure to respond to the question(s); and/or failure to provide required documentation will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below and required documentation uploaded at the time of submission of application/resume packet for this position.


1.
Basic Requirements: 

Choose the statement that best describes your experience, education, and/or professional certification related to this position. 

MUST provide official transcripts, professional certification, and resume MUST support your statement):

 A minimum of 1 full year of graduate level education in General Recreation or related field. (Transcripts must be attached)
 At least one (1) year of specialized experience that includes knowledge of water safety on an instructor level; ability to develop and monitor a comprehensive aquatics and sports program for a large community.
 I possess a combination of education and specialized experience. (Transcripts must be attached)
 I possess none of the above.


2.
Position Requirements: 

Choose the statement that best describes your experience, education, and/or professional certification related to this position. 

(MUST provide official transcripts, professional certification, AND resume MUST support your statement):
 I have a four-year undergraduate degree in recreation or related field AND instructor certification as a lifeguard, water safety instructor, or International Life Saving Federation certification in accordance with MWR policy (MUST provide official transcripts, professional certification, AND resume MUST reflect experience).
 I have at least 3 years of experience in the industry AND instructor certification as a lifeguard, water safety instructor, or International Life Saving Federation certification in accordance with MWR policy. (MUST provide professional certification, AND resume MUST reflect experience).
 I possess none of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you possess a current/unexpired American Red Cross Lifeguard or YMCA equivalent AND CPR for the Professional Rescuer and Emergency Response through the American Red Cross or equivalent?  (MUST upload proof of valid/unexpired certifications)
 Yes
 No


4.
How many years of experience do you have working in the sports and/or aquatics field that includes program planning, coordinating recreation activities, classes, and community sporting events for individuals and groups of varying demographics, ages and interest?
 I do not have any of the above-mentioned experience.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience as described above.
 I have between one (1) and two (2) years of experience as described above.
 I have between two (2) and three (3) years of experience as described above.
 I have more than three (3) years of experience as described above.


5.
How many years of experience do you possess in creating, negotiating, implementing, and sustaining partnerships within the local community or military organizations?
 I do not have any experience with the above-mentioned duties.
 I have less than two (2) years of experience as mentioned above.
 I have between two (2) and three (3) years of experience as mentioned above.
 I have at least four (4) years of experience as mentioned above.


6.
How many years of supervisory experience do you have?
 I do not have any supervisory experience.
 I have less than two (2) years of supervisory experience.
 I have between two (2) and four (4) years of supervisory experience.
 I have more than four (4) years of supervisory experience.


7.
How many years of experience do you possess speaking in front of both small and large groups?
 I have no experience with public speaking.
 I have less than one (1) year of public speaking.
 I have between one (1) and two (2) years of public speaking.
 I have between two (2) and four (4) years of public speaking.
 I have more than four (4) years of public speaking.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙