Position Title
Law Enforcement Information Systems Specialist
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
USBP-IMP-12761866-SNM Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 21, 2025 to Monday, August 4, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1.
Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from DHS?  If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-7 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-7 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-7 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-9 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
2. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
4. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
5. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
Assessment 1
The following question will only be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following best describes your experience and/or education to qualify for the GS-09 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes: Creating intelligence reports based on extrapolated data, research, and analysis; Utilizing law enforcement databases, video/remote sensor data and geospatial information to collect and analyze tactical intelligence; Utilizing national databases to determine identity, non-citizenship, and removability of individuals in accordance with Immigration laws, rules and regulations; Conducting real-time, rapid research through a wide assortment of databases and information systems; Identifying and reporting criminal history information, federal/state/local warrants, and driver's license information.
 B. I have successfully completed two or more years of full-time graduate education or a Master's (or higher) degree from an accredited college or university or an LL.B. or J.D that demonstrates the skills necessary to do the work. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 C. I have a combination of successfully completed education and experience that is at least 100% as described in the Combining Experience and Education statement in the announcement posting. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 D. I do not possess the specialized experience and/or education as described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
2. Do you have experience analyzing surveillance video and imagery in conjunction with other resources (i.e., sensor alerts) to detect and identify threats and incursions?

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Indicate the extent of your experience data mining and analyzing information by utilizing national databases.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have conducted data mining and analyzed the information utilizing databases within my organization.
 C. I have conducted data mining and analyzed the information utilizing local and state databases.
 D. I have conducted data mining and analyzed the information utilizing local, state, and national databases.
 E. I have conducted data mining and analyzed the information utilizing local, state, and national databases. I have merged and checked the information across the different databases to compile reports.
4. Indicate the extent of your experience interpreting and applying knowledge of laws.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have interpreted laws and provided recommendations to my team lead or supervisor.
 C. I have applied knowledge of laws and provided recommendations to my team lead or supervisor on my interpretation of the law. My suggestions were taken under consideration but not executed.
 D. I have applied knowledge of laws and provided recommendations to my team lead or supervisor on my interpretation of the law. My suggestions were taken under consideration and applied to the situation.
 E. I am considered an expert on interpreting laws based on my knowledge of laws. I am often consulted to make recommendations to address various situations.
5. Indicate the extent of your experience conducting video surveillance and database analysis.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have conducted database analysis but not video surveillance.
 C. I have assisted others in conducting video surveillance and database analysis.
 D. I have independently conducted video surveillance and database analysis.
 E. I have trained others on how to conduct video surveillance and database analysis.
6. Indicate the extent of your experience analyzing and communicating actionable information.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have analyzed information given to me and, with the assistance of a team lead or manager, determined if the information was actionable. I have not communicated the information to others.
 C. I have independently received information and determined whether it was actionable. I have communicated the information to my superiors.
 D. I have analyzed and communicated actionable information and provided a course of action based on the information.
7. Indicate the extent of your experience researching, analyzing, developing, and reporting on a variety of investigative and intelligence information to support ongoing investigations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others on researching, analyzing, developing, and reporting on a variety of investigative and intelligence information to support ongoing investigations.
 C. I have independently researched, analyzed, developed, and reported on a variety of investigative and intelligence information to support ongoing investigations.
 D. I have offered guidance to less experienced staff on how to research, analyze, develop, and report on a variety of investigative and intelligence information to support ongoing investigations.
 E. I have directed the work of others on researching, analyzing, developing, and reporting on a variety of investigative and intelligence information to support ongoing investigations.
8. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of information systems used to collect and analyze data to produce reports used to predict, target, detect, and disrupt illegal activities (e.g., NCIC, Automated Targeting System, CCDI, SEVIS).

 A. I have no knowledge of information systems used to collect and analyze data to produce reports used to predict, target, detect, and disrupt illegal activities (e.g., NCIC, Automated Targeting System, CCDI, SEVIS).
 B. I have basic knowledge of information systems used to collect and analyze data to produce reports used to predict, target, detect, and disrupt illegal activities (e.g., NCIC, Automated Targeting System, CCDI, SEVIS).
 C. I have a working knowledge of information systems used to collect and analyze data to produce reports used to predict, target, detect, and disrupt illegal activities (e.g., NCIC, Automated Targeting System, CCDI, SEVIS).
 D. I have expert knowledge of information systems used to collect and analyze data to produce reports used to predict, target, detect, and disrupt illegal activities (e.g., NCIC, Automated Targeting System, CCDI, SEVIS).
9. Indicate the extent of your ability to analyze a situation and determine when something is wrong or likely to go wrong.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I am able to analyze a situation and determine if something is wrong based on a pre-determined projected outcome of the situation.
 C. I am able to analyze situations and see the different consequences that can occur. I can determine if something is wrong or likely to go wrong based on those consequences.
10. Indicate the extent to which you have orally presented information to all levels of employees, management, and/or other departments or programs.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have notified supervisors, managers, or offices orally of decisions, problems, or further actions needed. In addition, I have informally explained the organization’s mission, programs, or services to others.
 C. I have given formal presentations at departmental/organizational briefings and meetings, and acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations.
 D. I have given formal presentations at departmental/organizational briefings and meetings of technical material that was often controversial or sensitive. I have adapted my explanations to the level of the target audience.
 E. I have given formal presentations to multi-agency workgroups of technical material that was often controversial or sensitive. I have adapted my explanations to the level of the target audience.
11. Indicate the extent of your experience expressing facts and ideas in writing.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written short responses to routine requests for information.
 C. I have written portions of reports, information papers, and other documents (technical and non-technical).
 D. I have independently composed written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, and other complete documents based on study findings and results of analyses.
 E. I have independently completed one or more written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, and other complete documents based on study findings and results of analyses. I have tailored written information to the technical knowledge of my audience.
12. Indicate the extent of your experience gathering and analyzing data and/or fact finding from various sources (e.g., databases, internal programs, online research) to direct and advise personnel .

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have analyzed data gathered from various sources (e.g., databases, internal programs, online research), but did not use the information to direct or advise personnel.
 C. I have analyzed data gathered from various sources (e.g., databases, internal programs, online research) and made suggestions to my team lead or supervisor on how to direct and advise personnel.
 D. I have directed and advised personnel using information gathered from various sources (e.g., databases, internal programs, online research).
13. Indicate the extent of your experience informing supervisors of the progress, potential controversies, and any widespread impacts of your work.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have kept my supervisor informed of my work progress when asked. My work has not had any widespread impact or potential controversies.
 C. I have kept my supervisor informed of my work progress when I completed a milestone. I informed my supervisor of any potential controversies or widespread impact as they arose.
 D. I have kept my supervisor informed of my work progress on a routine basis. I informed my supervisor of any potential controversies or widespread impact as they arose and provided possible consequences.
14. Indicate the extent of your experience conducting real-time, rapid research through a wide assortment of databases and information systems to locate specific data.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in conducting real-time, rapid research through a wide assortment of databases and information systems to locate specific data.
 C. I have independently conducted real-time, rapid research through a wide assortment of databases and information systems to locate specific data.
 D. I have offered guidance to less experienced staff in how to conduct real-time, rapid research through a wide assortment of databases and information systems to locate specific data.
 E. I have directed the work of others in conducting real-time, rapid research through a wide assortment of databases and information systems to locate specific data.
15. Indicate the extent of your experience gathering, verifying, and sorting information for accuracy and completeness.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in gathering, verifying, and sorting information from one or two sources for accuracy and completeness.
 C. I have independently gathered, verified, and sorted information from multiple sources for accuracy and completeness.
 D. I have served as a team lead or supervisor in which I gathered, verified, and sorted information from my team for accuracy and completeness.
16. Indicate the extent of your experience confirming the accuracy and authenticity of information, and resolving issues of contradictory, missing, or inconclusive data.

 A. I have had not training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have confirmed the accuracy and authenticity of information, but have not resolved issues of contradictory, missing, or inconclusive data.
 C. I have confirmed the accuracy and authenticity of information, and resolved simple issues of contradictory, missing, or inconclusive data.
 D. I have confirmed the accuracy and authenticity of information, and resolved complex issues of contradictory, missing, or inconclusive data.
 E. I have served as a team lead or supervisor and confirmed the accuracy and authenticity of information and assisted those with less experience to resolve complex issues of contradictory, missing, or inconclusive data.
17. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of computers and electronics, including applications and programming.

 A. I have no knowledge of computers and electronics, including applications and programming.
 B. I have basic knowledge of computers and electronics, including applications and programming.
 C. I have a working knowledge of computers and electronics, including applications and programming.
 D. I have expert knowledge of computers and electronics, including applications and programming.
18. Indicate your ability to concentrate on a task (e.g., analytical, data-focused, complex) over a period of time without being distracted.

 A. I do not have the ability to concentrate on a task (e.g., analytical, data-focused, complex) over a period of time without being distracted.
 B. I am able to concentrate on a task (e.g., analytical, data-focused, complex) for less than an hour without being distracted.
 C. I am able to concentrate on a task (e.g., analytical, data-focused, complex) for an hour or two without being distracted.
 D. I am able to concentrate on a task (e.g., analytical, data-focused, complex) for more than 3 hours without being distracted.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected