Position Title
Supervisory Land Management Law Enforcement Officer
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
R4-25-12796670-SW-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 15, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Career Transition Assistance Plan: 

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.


Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in the agency posting this job announcement with CTAP eligibility?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Competitive - Current Permanent Department of the Interior (or any of its Bureaus) Employee: 

Please select YES to this eligibility if you meet the criteria below:

Are you an employee of the Department of Interior or any of its bureaus who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment (tenure 1 or 2 in block 24 of the SF-50) in the competitive service (position occupied is 1 in block 34 of the SF-50) and has never permanently held the full performance level of the position being announced?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your current, permanent, competitive status with the Department of Interior or any of its bureaus. Your latest SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• Career or Career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in block 24 of the SF-50); AND,
• your status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in block 34 of the SF-50).

Do you wish to be considered as a Competitive, Current, Permanent DOI (or any of its Bureaus) Employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA)

Are you a current or former employee of a Land Management Agency (U.S. Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) and are serving or served under a time-limited competitive service appointment (Term, Temporary)?  You may be eligible to compete under the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act, P.L. 114-47.

Current land management agency appointees must have initially been hired under competitive procedures for a time-limited appointment; must have served under one or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former land management agency employees must have initially been hired under competitive procedures for a time-limited appointment; must have served under one or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service; must have been separated (with respect to their most recent separation) for reasons other than misconduct or performance, and must apply for a position covered by these provisions within two years of their most recent date of separation.

You must provide documentation showing all required periods of service which includes ALL Appointment AND Termination SF-50s for EACH appointment as well as ALL performance evaluations or references from supervisors (if employed for periods of time too short to require an appraisal) for each qualifying period of temporary employment claimed.

For more information about Land Management Workforce Eligibility:  USAJOBS Help Center - Land management

Are you a current or former employee of a Land Management Agency with LMWFA eligibility?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Non-Competitive - Current, Permanent Employee of the U.S. Department of the Interior (or any of its Bureaus):

Please select YES to this Eligibility if you meet the criteria below:

Are you an employee of the Department of the Interior or any of its bureaus who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment in the competitive service who holds or has previously held a permanent (non-temporary) position at the same or higher full performance level as the position being announced?

To verify your eligibility, you MUST submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status with the U.S. Department of the Interior or any of its bureaus.

Your latest SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• Career or Career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND
• your status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1)

Do you wish to be considered as a non-competitive current, permanent DOI (or any of its bureaus) employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Manteo, NC
 B. Awendaw, SC
 C. Hollywood, SC
 D. Springville, TN
Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Minimum Qualifications GS-12
For each question, choose the response that best describes your experience and training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provided in your resume or application and information provided by your references.
1. Select the response below that most accurately describes how you meet the minimum qualification requirement for the position of Supervisory Land Management Law Enforcement Officer at the GS-12 grade level.

 A. I have at least one (1) year of full-time specialized experience comparable in difficulty and responsibility to the next lower level, GS-11, in the Federal government. Specialized experience may include: 1) Planning, leading, and executing investigations, apprehensions, or detentions of individuals suspected of violating federal wildlife and criminal laws. 2) Collaborate directly with U.S. Attorney’s Office and/or other law enforcement agencies to facilitate prosecution and ensure successful case outcomes; 3) Representing the law enforcement program on interagency task forces, working groups, or committees, and influencing policy and operational decisions. 4) Administering the collection, validation, and comprehensive reporting of law enforcement data ensuring data accuracy and program compliance; 5) Conducting training, mentorship, guidance, or exercise judgment in handling complex enforcement issues affecting natural and cultural resources, and public safety.
 B. I do not have the specialized experience as described above.
Knowledge of principles and practices of supervision and management to plan, organize direct, and evaluate law enforcement programs.
2. Please select all statements that describe your experience working as a supervisor, team lead, project manager or similar position.

 A. I prepare and issue disciplinary letters of warning or caution to address employee misconduct and ensure adherence to workplace standards.
 B. I recommend disciplinary actions and provide feedback to leadership to support effective personnel management.
 C. I develop performance appraisal and evaluate employees’ work.
 D. I provide cautionary advice on misconduct, professionalism or accountability.
 E. I address issues and resolve conflicts through mediation and/or other forms of alternative dispute resolution.
 F. I provide recommendation on evaluating annual work performance, awards, and recognition.
 G. None of the above.
3. Please select all statements that demonstrate your experience in managing law enforcement activities.
 A. I provide direction to employees related to work issues.
 B. I plan work to be accomplished by subordinates based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments and capabilities of employees.
 C. I identify training needs to improve law enforcement production.
 D. I conduct and monitor quality control processes to ensure efficiency and accuracy.
 E. I offer guidance on work tasks or provide alternate solutions.
 F. None of the above.
4. Please select all statements that demonstrate your experience in planning law enforcement training.

 A. I develop training materials in accordance with law enforcement policies and regulatory guidance.
 B. I conduct program training evaluation to improve the efficiency of the training program.
 C. I schedule or plan training sessions to ensure law enforcement compliance.
 D. I identify training needs to enhance enforcement capabilities.
 E. I conduct on the job-training for new or lower-level officers.
 F. I review local law operating procedures and recommend updates based on policy or operational changes.
 G. None of the above.
Ability to administratively manage the law enforcement program for the refuges within the assigned zone while incorporating resource management objectives and concerns.
5. Please select all statements that demonstrate your experience in collaborating with local managers or project leaders to develop law enforcement operations or activities.

 A. I provide advice to support resource protection involving wildlife, public lands, or buildings.
 B. I establish law enforcement priorities using input from managers or project leaders.
 C. I determine the necessary personnel, equipment, resources, and timelines, required to successfully carry out law enforcement emergency situations.
 D. I prepare plans for critical law enforcement incident response.
 E. I gather input from community members to help guide law enforcement investigations.
 F. None of the above.
6. Please select all statements that demonstrate your experience preparing documents for violation notices, criminal complaints, and investigations.

 A. I draft violation notices by accurately documenting offenses and ensuring compliance with legal and procedural standards.
 B. I collect, organize, and analyze investigative data to support law enforcement cases aligned with plant and wildlife conservation mission, laws, regulations relating to resource protection.
 C. I review criminal complaints and violations involving natural resources and facilitate resolution of conflicting viewpoints.
 D. I prepare and present comprehensive incident reports that accurately document events, evidence, or enforcement actions related to violations.
 E. I gather witness statements to support investigations and ensure accurate documentation of incidents involving criminal activity or natural resource violations.
 F. I analyze evidence to support law enforcement investigations.
 G. I coordinate with legal teams to ensure law enforcement actions and case documentation align with prosecutorial requirements and timelines.
 H. I conduct law enforcement patrols to enforce natural resource protections, and issue citations for traffic violations and ensure public safety.
 I. None of the above.
7. Please select all statements that demonstrate your experience dealing with case reports.

 A. I provide quality control feedback to ensure compliance with case reports.
 B. I review and approve case reports for final submission to ensure completeness and accuracy.
 C. I identify discrepancies in reports to maintain data accuracy and support investigative integrity.
 D. I update case management system records to ensure accurate and current information for ongoing investigations.
 E. I review supporting documentation to verify information and ensure compliance with investigative standards.
 F. I monitor report submission timelines.
 G. None of the above.
Skills to interact with others in a professional manner to address a variety of client groups on law enforcement program objectives and to garner program support as well as to plan and provide training to personnel engaged in law enforcement on an on-going seasonal or collateral basis by developing materials and providing situational and classroom training in law enforcement.
8. Please select all statements that demonstrate your experience working with investigation activities with Federal, state, and local agencies for law enforcement, resource protection, counter-narcotics, emergency response, or multi-jurisdictional operations.

 A. I have participated in joint emergency operations to protect wildlife, habitats, and public safety in support of conservation and enforcement objectives.
 B. I share information and intelligence among multi-agencies.
 C. I plan and conduct joint investigations or patrols to protect natural resources and ensure compliance with environmental laws across jurisdictions.
 D. I organize and facilitate multi-agency meetings to enhance collaboration, share intelligence, and coordinate strategies for natural resource protection and enforcement.
 E. I attend or represent the program at multi-agency meetings to support collaboration and information sharing on natural resource protection.
 F. I lead operations by investigating illegal wildlife activities, apprehending suspects, and collaborating with conservation and law enforcement agencies to protect natural resources.
 G. None of the above.
9. Select all the statements which reflects your experience ensuring emergency equipment readiness.

 A. I conduct inspections of issued equipment to ensure operational readiness.
 B. I identify and outline the required features and standards for new equipment.
 C. I oversee scheduled maintenance to prevent equipment failure during critical operations.
 D. I provide training to personnel on the proper use and handling of law enforcement equipment.
 E. I document inspection and maintenance processes to ensure functionality.
 F. None of the above.
10. Do you have experience using the Incident Command System to direct the work of others in emergency and non-emergency situations?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Knowledge in law enforcement patrol techniques, practices, and equipment, including back country patrol, surveillance techniques, anti-poaching operations, interviewing and interrogation techniques and methods, arrest techniques, emergency vehicle operation, and accident investigation to direct and evaluate the effectiveness of patrol operations.
11. Please select all statements that demonstrate your experience in gathering handling and preserving evidence.

 A. I utilize appropriate methods, protocols, and tools to collect evidence to prevent contamination or damage.
 B. I keep thorough documentation for each piece of evidence, including photographs, descriptions, and any relevant notes throughout the investigation and legal process.
 C. I maintain a detailed and accurate chain of custody for all evidence.
 D. I store evidence in a secure, controlled environment to ensure its preservation.
 E. I conduct regular audits and inventories of evidence to ensure that all items are accounted for and properly stored.
 F. I provide continuous training for all personnel involved in evidence management to ensure they implement the latest protocols, legal requirements, and best practices.
 G. I adhere to legal and procedural guidelines for disposing of evidence when no longer needed, ensuring all documentation is complete and the process is secure and compliant.
 H. None of the above.
12. Please select all statements that demonstrate your experience conducting law enforcement activities.

 A. I investigate criminal violations such as arson, theft, vandalism, illegal hunting, poaching, and other unlawful activities occurring on public lands.
 B. I have documented findings and factual evidence to support investigative case reports that advance the enforcement of wildlife protection laws and conservation efforts.
 C. I have obtained accurate witness statements to support investigations and ensure thorough documentation of wildlife law enforcement cases.
 D. I have conducted interviews and interrogations using proven techniques to gather critical information, assess credibility, and support ongoing investigations.
 E. I assess situations to determine when taking individuals into custody was necessary, ensuring actions aligned with legal standards and prioritized public safety.
 F. I arrest law violators to ensure public safety and uphold legal compliance.
 G. I issue citations in accordance with law enforcement and wildlife protection laws regulations.
 H. None of the above.
Prior law enforcement experience carrying out duties involving investigation, apprehension, and/or detention of persons suspected of offenses against the criminal laws of the United States is a basic qualification for this position.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
13. I understand that prior law enforcement experience involving investigations, apprehensions, and/or detentions of individuals suspected of offenses against the laws of the United States is required for this position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
This position has been identified as Critical-Sensitive. Incumbent may be required to obtain and maintain a favorable Top-Secret background investigation.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
14. I understand this position is identified as Critical-Sensitive, and I may be required to obtain and maintain a favorable Top-Secret background investigation.

 A. Yes
 B. No
The incumbent must successfully undergo the following screening and testing measures or document completion of:• Pre-Placement Medical Clearance (242 FW 4)• Federal Law Enforcement Training Center's Physical Efficiency Battery (PEB)• Lautenberg Certification (18 U.S.C. 922(g) (9))• Drug testing• Psychological Screening• Medical Exams
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
15. I understand that the following screening and testing measures are required as conditions of employment for this position:
• Pre-Placement Medical Clearance (242 FW 4)
• Federal Law Enforcement Training Center's Physical Efficiency Battery (PEB)
• Lautenberg Certification (18 U.S.C. 922(g) (9))
• Drug testing
• Psychological Screening
• Medical Exams

 A. Yes
 B. No
Incumbent must have successfully completed basic law enforcement training as well as an additional 40 hours of in-service training annually. Specific coursework required includes:• Land Management Police Training Program (FLETC) (or equivalent)• Federal Wildlife Officer Basic Training (FWOBT)• Field Training and Evaluation Program (FWS - FTEP)
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
16. I understand that successful completion of the following training courses is required as a condition of employment for this position:
Specific coursework required includes:
• Land Management Police Training Program (FLETC) (or equivalent)
• Federal Wildlife Officer Basic Training (FWOBT)
• Field Training and Evaluation Program (FWS - FTEP)

 A. Yes
 B. No
The incumbent must maintain the following Licenses and Certifications:• A Federal commission of law enforcement authority• Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and first aid• Annual/semiannual firearms qualification• A valid state-issued motor vehicle operator's license• Special purpose endorsements (as required by the specific position) for additional vehicle types including four-wheel drives, all-terrain vehicles, motorcycles, aircraft and/or watercraft
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
17. I understand that the following certifications and license are required as conditions of employment for this position:
• A Federal commission of law enforcement authority
• Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and first aid
• Annual/semiannual firearms qualification
• A valid state-issued motor vehicle operator's license
• Special purpose endorsements (as required by the specific position) for additional vehicle types including four-wheel drives, all-terrain vehicles, motorcycles, aircraft and/or watercraft.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Incumbent must also:• Wear the FWS uniform according to policy• Safely utilize firearms, non-lethal weapons, and defensive tactics in the conduct of daily activities
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
18. I understand that this position requires wearing the designated Fish and Wildlife Service uniform according to policy and safely utilize firearms, non-lethal weapons, and defensive tactics in the conduct of daily activities.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Resume
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
19. I understand that only the first 2 pages of my resume will be reviewed to determine my eligibility/qualifications, and the first 2 pages contains the required information to qualify for the position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Certification Statement
20. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.

 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected