Position Title
MANAGEMENT AND PROGRAM ANALYST (ACQUISITION)
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
USBP-DE-12787586-TAM Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 22, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee with a confirmed Reemployment Priority List (RPL) registration that includes the following:
You have received notice that you will be displaced from the DHS, or
You have been separated by a reduction in force (RIF) from DHS within the last two years, or
You are fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year after compensation began, AND you have either separated from DHS due to a compensable injury or disability OR you have accepted a position at a lower grade or pay level in lieu of separation. 
 If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your eligibility, such as:
RPL registration documentation, AND
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
If recovered from a compensable injury, Department of Labor notification that injury compensation benefits will or have been ceased
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency? If yes, confirm:
You occupy (or have been separated from) a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. This question applies to current DHS employees. If you are not a current DHS employee, select No.  If you claim only this eligibility, and you are not a current DHS employee, you will not receive further consideration for this position.   

Are you a current Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who is currently employed with DHS in a permanent competitive service position? DHS includes the following agencies: CBP, ICE, FEMA, FLETC, USCIS, USCG, USSS, etc.). Please visit http://dhsconnect.dhs.gov for a comprehensive list of all DHS agencies. 

Note: To verify your eligibility as a current DHS employee you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting: Tenure: Career or career-conditional (1 or 2) and Position Occupied: Competitive service (1).

If you do not meet any of the categories above, you must answer no to this question.

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by CBP. Individuals are required to have physically resided in the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law) for at least three of the last five years, before completing an application for CBP employment.

If you do not meet the residency requirement as stated above and you have been physically located in a foreign location for more than two of the last five years, you may request an exception to determine if you are eligible for a residency wavier by meeting one or more of the following conditions:
Working for the U.S. Government as a federal civilian or as a member of the military
A dependent who was authorized to accompany a federal civilian or member of the military who was working for the U.S. government
Participation in a study abroad program sponsored by a U.S. affiliated college or university
Working as a contractor, intern, consultant or volunteer supporting the U.S. government

Exceptions may be granted to applicants if they can provide complete state-side coverage information required to make a suitability determination. Examples of state-side coverage information include: the state-side address of the company headquarters where the applicant's personnel file is located, the state-side address of the Professor in charge of the applicant's "Study Abroad" program, and/or the state-side addresses of anyone who worked or studied with the applicant while overseas. If selected for a position, you must provide documentation to support a request for an exception.

Do you meet the residency requirement?
 A. Yes, for at least 3 of the last 5 years I physically resided within the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law).
 B. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am a current CBP employee.
 C. No, I do not meet this requirement and am therefore requesting an exception under one of the criteria listed above. I understand that if selected for this position, I will be required to provide supporting documentation for the period of time I have spent outside of the United States.
 D. No, I do not meet this requirement and am not requesting an exception. I understand that since I do not meet CBP’s residency requirement, I cannot be considered for a position with CBP at this time.
3. Are you receiving a civilian retirement annuity from OPM based on retiring from the Federal government? If you select yes and you are selected for this position, your salary will be off-set by the amount of your civilian retirement annuity.

To verify, you must submit a copy of your retirement SF-50 with your application package. It is also recommended to submit a copy of your most recent annuity statement.

Note, this does not apply to military retirement and annuity pay.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
5. Are you a current or former Federal employee? If yes, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your SF-50(s) (Notification of Personnel Action) to support your experience. Also, ensure that your resume contains a detailed description of your federal work experience, including the dates you performed those duties, your hours worked per week, job title, as well as series, grade level(s), and salary (if applicable).
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. In addition to the application and application questionnaire, this position requires a USA Hire online assessment, which measures critical general competencies required to perform the job. If you are required to take the USA Hire assessment, you will be emailed a unique URL to access the USA Hire system. The USA Hire online assessment must be completed within 48 hours, following the close of this announcement. You will have the opportunity to request a testing accommodation for the assessment should you have a disability covered under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). See the How to Apply and Next Steps within the Job Opportunity Announcement for additional details.

Do you acknowledge that you may be required to take an additional online USA Hire assessment, via an email link sent to you after completion of this application, and that failure to complete any portion of the assessment will remove your application from consideration?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that by not taking the additional required USA Hire assessment that I will be removed from further consideration.
7. The following question will be used to determine if you meet the certification requirement. An applicant must possess a FAI FAC-P/PM Mid-Level Program Management certification with DHS P/PM Specialization or the ability to obtain this certification within 18 months of placement. The position may also require DHS IT Specialization if assigned to an IT or Mixed Program.

Which of the following best describes your certification level?
 A. I currently possess a FAI FAC-P/PM Mid-Level Program Management certification with DHS P/PM Specialization.
 B. I have the ability to obtain this certification within 18 months of placement to the position.
 C. I do not currently possess a FAI FAC-P/PM Mid-Level Program Management certification with DHS P/PM Specialization or will not have the ability to obtain this certification within 18 months of placement to the position.
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
The following question will only be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following statements best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-12 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes: Applying analytical and evaluative methods and techniques to issues concerning the efficiency and effectiveness of acquisition program operations; Evaluating assigned program areas and recommending actions to achieve program objectives and future improvements; Providing advice and guidance on acquisition management policies, procedures, directives, and best practices; Assisting acquisition staff in all matters relating to the application of acquisition planning, execution and oversight, and problem solving.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
2. Indicate the extent of your experience reporting on program status or technical problems requiring resolution.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have reported program status or technical problems to my immediate supervisor, either formally or informally.
 C. I have provided formal briefings on program status or technical problems to higher level officials in my organization.
 D. I have delivered formal briefings on program status or technical problems to higher level officials.
3. Indicate the extent of your experience in using word processing, spreadsheet, and database software (for example, Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Access, or SharePoint).
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have used software to access and retrieve data, files, or other information to respond to routine inquiries or to disseminate general information.
 C. I have used software to create, print, and send data, files, or other information in order to compile information, maintain logs, or prepare basic reports.
 D. I have used software to create, edit, and manipulate data in order to perform statistical analyses, enter comprehensive reports, or design new procedures.
4. Indicate the extent of your experience using data tracking systems (e.g., databases, logs).
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have entered data into previously established tracking systems.
 C. I have created and implemented new tracking systems, and have inputted qualitative and quantitative data into these systems.
 D. I have trained others to enter data into tracking systems, and have reviewed their work for accuracy.
5. Indicate the extent of your training and experience analyzing and interpreting qualitative and/or quantitative data.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training in analyzing and interpreting qualitative and quantitative data, but I have not applied this training on the job.
 C. I have analyzed qualitative and quantitative data, and tabulated the results as part of my regular job duties.
 D. I have analyzed qualitative and quantitative data, tabulated the results, interpreted the results, and developed recommendations as part of my regular job duties.
 E. I have been responsible for reviewing the validity of the results and conclusions of qualitative and quantitative data analyses conducted by others as part of my regular job duties.
6. Indicate the extent of your experience coordinating activities and resources while serving on a special project.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted in coordinating activities and resources while serving as a member of a special project.
 C. I have coordinated activities and resources while leading a special project.
7. Indicate the extent to which you have improved, modified, or adapted general guidelines and procedures to specific situations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have adapted general guidelines to specific situations under direct instruction from my supervisor.
 C. I have independently modified or adapted general guidelines and procedures to specific situations.
8. Indicate the extent to which you have had experience in interpreting, understanding, and applying the administrative policies, procedures, and operating guides to perform your work.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have interpreted and applied administrative policies and operating guides to perform my work based on direct instruction from my supervisor.
 C. I have independently selected, interpreted, and applied administrative procedures or operating guides to perform my work.
 D. I have trained others to select, interpret, and apply administrative procedures or operating guides to perform their work.
9. Indicate the extent of your experience developing new policies for an organization.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in the development of new policies for an organization.
 C. I have developed new policies for an organization under the direct supervision of senior employee.
 D. I have independently developed new policies for an organization. I have made recommendations for revisions to current or proposed policy and my recommendations have improved program and operational effectiveness.
10. Indicate the extent of your experience in designing, developing, and conducting studies to measure a program's costs and benefits.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted with the design and development of a cost and benefit analysis of a program.
 C. I have independently designed, developed, and conducted a cost and benefit analysis of a program.
 D. I have been responsible for designing, developing, and conducting cost and benefit analyses of numerous programs as well as overseeing subordinates' cost and benefit studies.
11. Indicate the extent of your experience in working in work-related teams.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have participated as a team member, receiving task assignments and project goals from my supervisor or team leader.
 C. I have served as a team leader, communicating task assignments and project goals to team members and monitoring progress.
 D. I have led several teams, ensuring that team members met project goals and deadlines and evaluating individual team member performance.
12. Indicate the extent to which you have planned and organized your own work.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have completed my work according to specific instructions given to me by my supervisors.
 C. I have organized my work involving mostly recurring assignments.
 D. I have prioritized and planned my work, taking into account changing priorities and assignments.
13. Indicate the extent of your experience identifying routine problems and determining solutions.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in identifying routine problems and determining solutions.
 C. I have independently identified, described, and compared different solutions to routine problems.
 D. I have evaluated routine problems and I have developed and recommended changes or solutions that were successful.
14. Indicate the extent of your experience in expressing facts and ideas in writing.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written short responses to routine requests for information.
 C. I have written portions of reports, information papers, and other documents (technical and non-technical).
 D. I have independently composed written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, and other complete documents based on study findings and results of analyses.
 E. I have independently composed one or more written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, and other complete documents based on study findings and results of analyses. I have tailored the information presented to my audience.
15. Indicate the extent to which you have developed and maintained effective relationships (liaison) with individuals internal and external to your work group, office, and organization.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have maintained relationships with individuals in my work group or office, primarily in the completion of my regular job duties or in response to specific inquiries.
 C. I have maintained relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group and office to exchange information, resolve problems, or participate in joint task forces/teams.
 D. I have developed and maintained relationships with an extensive network of individuals internal and external to my work group, office, and organization. I have used this network to resolve problems, plan joint task force/team projects, and establish long-term working relationships.
16. Indicate the extent of your experience in monitoring performance measures to evaluate the effectiveness of operations and/or assist in program administration.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have monitored performance measures to determine the effectiveness of operations and/or program administration.
 C. I have developed performance measures to evaluate the effectiveness of operations and/or assist in program administration, and have monitored the use of these measurements.
 D. I have supervised the development of performance measurements used to evaluate the effectiveness of operations and program administration, as well as the evaluation of operations and program administration.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected