Position Title
Criminal Investigator
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OPR-DE(DHA)-12801124-KMW Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 15, 2025 to Wednesday, October 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Enter the number of MONTHS of Federal service experience you have attained as a firefighter, law enforcement or air traffic controller.


3.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


4.
Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 Yes
 No


5.
This question applies to current DHS employees. If you are not a current DHS employee, select No.  If you claim only this eligibility, and you are not a current DHS employee, you will not receive further consideration for this position.   

Are you a current Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who is currently employed with DHS in a permanent competitive service position? DHS includes the following agencies: CBP, ICE, FEMA, FLETC, USCIS, USCG, USSS, etc.). Please visit http://dhsconnect.dhs.gov for a comprehensive list of all DHS agencies. 

Note: To verify your eligibility as a current DHS employee you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting: Tenure: Career or career-conditional (1 or 2) and Position Occupied: Competitive service (1).

If you do not meet any of the categories above, you must answer no to this question.

 Yes
 No


6.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency? If yes, confirm:
You occupy (or have been separated from) a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


7.
Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee with a confirmed Reemployment Priority List (RPL) registration that includes the following:
You have received notice that you will be displaced from the DHS, or
You have been separated by a reduction in force (RIF) from DHS within the last two years, or
You are fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year after compensation began, AND you have either separated from DHS due to a compensable injury or disability OR you have accepted a position at a lower grade or pay level in lieu of separation. 
 If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your eligibility, such as:
RPL registration documentation, AND
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
If recovered from a compensable injury, Department of Labor notification that injury compensation benefits will or have been ceased
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 2 location(s).
 A. Tucson, AZ
 B. Yuma, AZ
 C. El Centro, CA
 D. San Diego, CA
 E. Miami, FL
 F. Detroit, MI
 G. Champlain, NY
 H. New York, NY
 I. Alpine, TX
 J. Del Rio, TX
 K. El Paso, TX
 L. Laredo, TX
 M. McAllen, TX
 N. Seattle, WA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


3.
Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 Yes
 No


4.
This position requires the ability to operate a Government Owned Vehicle. Do you have a valid, non-restricted driver's license or will you be able to obtain a valid, non-restricted driver's license before the time of appointment?
 Yes
 No


5.
There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by CBP. Individuals are required to have physically resided in the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law) for at least three of the last five years, before completing an application for CBP employment.

If you do not meet the residency requirement as stated above and you have been physically located in a foreign location for more than two of the last five years, you may request an exception to determine if you are eligible for a residency wavier by meeting one or more of the following conditions:
Working for the U.S. Government as a federal civilian or as a member of the military
A dependent who was authorized to accompany a federal civilian or member of the military who was working for the U.S. government
Participation in a study abroad program sponsored by a U.S. affiliated college or university
Working as a contractor, intern, consultant or volunteer supporting the U.S. government

Exceptions may be granted to applicants if they can provide complete state-side coverage information required to make a suitability determination. Examples of state-side coverage information include: the state-side address of the company headquarters where the applicant's personnel file is located, the state-side address of the Professor in charge of the applicant's "Study Abroad" program, and/or the state-side addresses of anyone who worked or studied with the applicant while overseas. If selected for a position, you must provide documentation to support a request for an exception.

Do you meet the residency requirement?
 Yes, for at least 3 of the last 5 years I physically resided within the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law).
 The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am a current CBP employee.
 No, I do not meet this requirement and am therefore requesting an exception under one of the criteria listed above. I understand that if selected for this position, I will be required to provide supporting documentation for the period of time I have spent outside of the United States.
 No, I do not meet this requirement and am not requesting an exception. I understand that since I do not meet CBP’s residency requirement, I cannot be considered for a position with CBP at this time.


6.
Are you receiving a civilian retirement annuity from OPM based on retiring from the Federal government? If you select yes and you are selected for this position, your salary will be off-set by the amount of your civilian retirement annuity.

To verify, you must submit a copy of your retirement SF-50 with your application package. It is also recommended to submit a copy of your most recent annuity statement.

Note, this does not apply to military retirement and annuity pay.
 Yes
 No


7.
I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.


8.
Are you a current or former Federal employee? If yes, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your SF-50(s) (Notification of Personnel Action) to support your experience. Also, ensure that your resume contains a detailed description of your federal work experience, including the dates you performed those duties, your hours worked per week, job title, as well as series, grade level(s), and salary (if applicable).
 Yes
 No


9.
Provisions of Public Laws 93-350 and 100-238 allow the imposition of a maximum age for initial appointment to a primary Law Enforcement Officer position within the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). In accordance with DHS Management Directive 251-03, the "day before an individual's 37th birthday" is the maximum age for original appointment to a position as a primary law enforcement officer within DHS. In accordance with Department of Homeland Security Directive 251-03, unless the below criteria applies, you must meet this age requirement by the date of referral to the hiring manager.

Creditable law enforcement officer service covered by Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) or Title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d), or creditable service covered by Title 5 U.S.C. 8401(36) (as a Customs and Border Protection Officer) on or after July 6, 2008, may be applied toward the maximum age requirement. This age restriction may not apply if you are currently serving in a federal civilian (not military) law enforcement position covered by Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) or Title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d).

Veterans Preference Eligibility: To ensure compliance with statutes pertaining to the appointment of preference eligible veterans as determined by the Merit Systems Protection Board in its recent decision of Isabella v. Dept. of State, the maximum age for original appointment articulated above shall not apply to the hiring of individuals entitled to veterans preference eligibility under 5 U.S.C. § 3312. You must submit proof of Veteran's Preference (DD-214 Member 4 Copy) at the time of application.
Will you be less than 37 years of age at the closing date of this announcement?
 Yes
 No, but I have creditable federal civilian (not military) service under Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c), Title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d), or creditable service on or after July 6, 2008 covered by Public Law 110-161 that may be applied toward the maximum age requirement.
 Not applicable. The age restriction does not apply to me because I am currently serving in a federal civilian (not military) position and the retirement covered under Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) or Title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d).
 Not Applicable. The age restriction does not apply because I am entitled to veterans’ preference eligibility under 5 U.S.C. § 3312.
 No, I will not be less than 37 years of age at the closing date of this announcement and DO NOT meet any of the exceptions listed above. I understand that this will remove me from receiving further consideration under this announcement.


10.
This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience and/or education to qualify for the GL-09 level?
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes investigating and arresting individuals suspected of crime; participating in search and arrest warrants; gathering and analyzing facts, evidence and intelligence through interviews and interrogations and law enforcement databases; preparing and presenting detailed reports of investigations and results in a timely manner for supervisor for review.
 I have successfully completed two or more years of full-time graduate education or a Master's (or higher) degree or an LL.B. or J.D from an accredited college or university, in a field of study related to law enforcement (e.g. criminal justice, homeland security, criminology, justice studies, law enforcement and judicial systems, forensic technology or forensic psychology). I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 I have a combination of successfully completed education and experience that is at least 100% as described in the Combining Experience and Education statement in the announcement posting. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 I do not possess the specialized experience and/or education as described above


11.
This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience and/or education to qualify for the GS-11 grade level?
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes   independently conducting criminal investigations on individuals, business and criminal organizations, employees and/or associated individuals who are suspected of misconduct, corruption, extortion and other violations affecting national security; participating in authorized undercover operations of employees and/or associated individuals; serving as a witness to testify or present cases to grand juries; assisting in drafting legal documents such as affidavits and executing search and arrest warrants; subpoenas; electronic surveillance orders.
 I have successfully completed 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a degree from an accredited college or university, a degree doctoral degree and or LL.M., in a field of study related to law enforcement (e.g. criminal justice, homeland security, criminology, justice studies, law enforcement and judicial systems, forensic technology or forensic psychology). I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 I have a combination of successfully completed education and experience that is at least 100% as described in the Combining Experience and Education statement in the announcement posting. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 I do not possess the specialized experience and/or education described above.


Merit Hiring Plan Essay Questions
Assessment 1
 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙