Position Title
STAFF ASSISTANT
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
USBP-IMP-12768807-HH Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 29, 2025 to Monday, August 4, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from DHS?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
7
9
2. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-7 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-7 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-7 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-9 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
3. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-5 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-5 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-5 grade level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-7 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale or I am applying
5. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
6. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
7. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
8. In addition to the application and application questionnaire, this position requires a USA Hire online assessment, which measures critical general competencies required to perform the job. If you are required to take the USA Hire assessment, you will be emailed a unique URL to access the USA Hire system. The USA Hire online assessment must be completed within 48 hours, following the close of this announcement. You will have the opportunity to request a testing accommodation for the assessment should you have a disability covered under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). See the How to Apply and Next Steps within the Job Opportunity Announcement for additional details.

Do you acknowledge that you may be required to take an additional online USA Hire assessment, via an email link sent to you after completion of this application, and that failure to complete any portion of the assessment will remove your application from consideration?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that by not taking the additional required USA Hire assessment that I will be removed from further consideration.
Assessment 1
The following questions determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. Please review the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following statements best describes your experience and/or education to qualify for the GS-7 grade level?
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level that includes coordinating administrative activities and ensuring that deadlines are met; coordinating the assembly of briefing materials; and answering factual questions from the organization's clients concerning its programs and problem solving.
 B. I have successfully completed one year of full-time graduate education from an accredited college or university that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 C. I have a combination of successfully completed graduate education and experience as described in A and B above, the total of which equals 100%. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 D. I have successfully completed all of the requirements for a Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university and claim eligibility for superior academic achievement based on one of the following: a grade point average of 3.0 or higher on a 4.0 scale, class standing in the upper third of my graduating class or major subdivision, or membership in a national scholastic honor society. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 E. I do not possess the specialized experience and/or education described above.
2. Which of the following statements best describes your experience and/or education to qualify for the GS-9 grade level?
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level that includes Ensuring that priorities and deadlines are met on administrative programs and/or projects; establishing and monitoring deadlines and obligating budget expenditures; evaluating supply needs and managing equipment service procurement actions while coordinating administrative and technical correspondence.
 B. I have successfully completed a Master's degree or equivalent graduate degree, 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, a J.D. or an LL.B. degree from an accredited college or university may substitute for experience required at this level. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 C. I have a combination of successfully completed graduate education and experience as described in A or B above, the total of which equals 100%. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 D. I do not possess the specialized experience and/or education described above.
The following questions rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
3. Indicate the extent of your experience performing administrative analytical support duties.

 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have completed administrative tasks (e.g., reviewing and completing paperwork) as a member of a group responsible for providing administrative support for an organization.
 C. I have been the primary person responsible for a variety of tasks related to administrative support (e.g., human resources, workers' compensation, payroll, travel).
 D. I have served as a team lead responsible for ensuring my work unit provided administrative analytical support (e.g., human resources, workers' compensation, payroll, travel) to the organization.
4. Indicate the extent of your experience receiving and screening emails and directing inquiries to the appropriate person.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. Under the close guidance of a supervisor or other more senior individual, I have received and screened emails and directed inquiries to the appropriate person.
 C. I have had the primary responsibility for an office in screening emails and directed inquiries to the appropriate person.
5. Indicate the extent of your experience making arrangements for return telephone calls.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. Under the close guidance of a supervisor or other more senior individual, I have gathered background infromation from callers to ensure that staff members have sufficient information to timely return telephone calls.
 C. I have had the primary responsibility for an office in gathering gathered background infromation from callers to ensure that staff members have sufficient information to timely return telephone calls.
6. Indicate the extent of your experience providing administrative support for travel arrangements.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have scheduled appointments or travel for my supervisor or maintained my supervisor’s calendar.
 C. I have made travel arrangements and scheduled meetings or conferences for small work groups.
 D. I have coordinated meetings and travel arrangements, including include aircraft and ground transportation, messages, passports, and visas for an office.
7. Indicate the extent of your experience identifying routine problems and determining solutions.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in identifying routine problems and determining appropriate solutions.
 C. I have identified, described, and compared different solutions to routine problems.
 D. I have evaluated routine problems and I have developed and recommended changes or solutions that were successful.
8. Have you been a purchase card holder or conducted the duties of a purchase card holder (i.e., executed purchases, reconciled monthly statements, and maintained required documentation)?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Indicate the extent of your experience providing support for equipment and supply purchases.

 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have provided support for simple purchases (i.e., purchasing supplies/equipment below $3000).
 C. I have provided support for complex purchases (i.e., creating purchase requests or task orders for items exceeding $3000).
 D. I have trained others on the purchase card authorizations process in my organization. I am often responsible for tracking expenditures and handling the most complex purchase requests.
10. Indicate the extent of your experience in coordinating, monitoring, and prioritizing projects, calendars, and taskers to meet deadlines.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have followed the schedule, goals, and guidelines prepared by my supervisor.
 C. I have independently set goals and priorities for my own work across multiple projects to ensure that my deadlines were met.
 D. I have set goals and priorities for my own work and coordinated activities and timelines with others across multiple projects to ensure that project goals and deadlines were met.
11. Indicate the extent of your experience in reviewing or editing documents for proper content, format, grammar, spelling, typographical errors, and conformity with instructions or manuals.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have proofread documents, correspondence, or forms and identified typographical or grammatical errors.
 C. I have reviewed and edited documents for proper content, format, grammar, spelling, typographical errors, for logical sequencing of information, and for conformity with instructions or manuals.
 D. I have reviewed and edited complex documents for grammar, spelling, logical sequencing of information, and conciseness, and I have verified completeness, correctness, and consistency.
12. Indicate the extent of your experience preparing final correspondence and other documents.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training on reviewing and editing written docments for adherence to policies, but I have not yet applied it to the job.
 C. Under the close guidance of a supervisor or other more senior individual, I have reviewed outgoing documents for neatness, accuracy, format, and adherence to policies.
 D. I have had the primary responsibility for an office in reviewing outgoing documents for neatness, accuracy, format, and adherence to policies.
13. Indicate the extent of your experience using standard Microsoft Office applications (e.g., Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint) to develop and maintain various reports.

 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have received training in standard computer tools (e.g., Microsoft Office Suite) to develop and maintain various reports using word processing documents, PowerPoint presentations, and spreadsheets.
 C. I have used standard Microsoft Office applications (e.g., Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint) to edit or update existing reports or presentations.
 D. I have used standard Microsoft Office applications (e.g., Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint) to edit, update, and develop new reports or documents to convey information when no template was available.
14. Indicate the extent of your experience performing administrative support duties.

 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have completed administrative tasks (e.g., reviewing and completing paperwork) as a member of a group responsible for providing administrative support for an organization.
 C. I have been the primary person responsible for a variety of tasks related to administrative support (e.g., human resources, workers' compensation, payroll, travel).
15. Indicate the extent of your experience collecting, reviewing, amending, and certifying Time and Attendance for employees.

 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have received training in collecting, reviewing, amending, and certifying Time and Attendance for employees in accordance with the proper procedure.
 C. I have collected, reviewed, and amended Time and Attendance for employees in accordance with the proper procedure as part of my normal duties.
 D. I have served as a final reviewer whose duties included collecting, reviewing, amending, and certifying Time and Attendance in accordance with the proper procedure.
16. Indicate the extent to which you have on your own inititaitve read, interpreted, and applied written information to perform work-related tasks .

 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have read routine materials/correspondence and applied this information to routine tasks (for example, to respond to basic questions from coworkers or support personnel).
 C. I have read materials, such as manuals, handbooks, directives, or nontechnical reports, and used them to complete projects and answer questions (e.g., read reports to provide summaries to others, informed others of ways to resolve potential issues).
 D. I have read difficult materials, such as technical manuals, reports, or policies and applied them to specific situations (e.g., to plan and implement special projects or studies, or identify situations that may impact current/future operations).
17. Indicate the extent of your experience that best describes your ability to use judgment in interpreting and adapting guidelines to meet requirements for new tasks or solve problems.

 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in interpreting and adapting guidelines to meet requirements for new tasks or solve problems.
 C. I have independently interpreted and adapted guidelines to meet requirements for new tasks or solve problems on my own initiative.
18. Indicate the extent of your experience that best describes your ability to present information to all levels of management and employees.

 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have interacted with others informally in a work setting.
 C. I have notified supervisors, managers, or offices orally and in writing of decisions, problems, or further actions needed. In addition, I have informally explained the organization’s programs or services to others.
 D. I have given formal presentations at departmental/organizational briefings and meetings, and have written formal reports. I have acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations.
19. Indicate the extent of your experience in expressing facts and ideas in writing.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written short responses to routine requests for information.
 C. I have written portions of one or more reports, information papers, and other documents (technical and non-technical).
 D. I have independently composed written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, and other complete documents based on study findings and results of analyses.
 E. I have independently completed formal written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, and other complete documents based on study findings and results of analyses. I have successfully tailored written information to the technical knowledge of my audience.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected