Position Title
Pilot Trainee Towboat
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERG258755190633HW Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 24, 2025 to Tuesday, August 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Military Spouse Direct Hire Authority (DHA) Outside the US:

You may be eligible for this hiring category if you are the spouse of a member of the Uniformed Service permanently assigned to a location outside the United States and you meet all of the following conditions: 
You and your sponsor were married prior to the date authorizing the relocation (Permanent Change of Station (PCS)) to a foreign duty station; and
You have arrived at the foreign duty station identified on your sponsor's PCS orders; and
You reside with your sponsor at the foreign duty station; and
The position you are applying to is within the same commuting area as your sponsor's permanent duty station (as listed on the PCS orders).

In order to verify your eligibility for the Military Spouse Direct Hire Authority, you are required to submit the documentation listed below:
A copy of the Service Member's PCS orders. PCS orders must include a statement authorizing the spouse to accompany the member to the foreign duty station, the specific location to which the member is assigned, and the effective/report date of the PCS.
Verification of the marriage to the service member (e.g., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage). If the PCS orders include your full name and indicate that you are the spouse of the service member, you do not have to submit verification of the marriage at the time of application. If selected, verification of marriage will be required prior to entrance on duty.
Are you eligible for Military Spouse Direct Hire Authority?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Pilot Trainee, Towboat position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
1. From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Pilot Trainee, Towboat duties without more than normal supervision.

 A. I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex tasks which includes: 1) operate a 2000 hp twin screw diesel-powered towboat over 100 feet in length; tow consisting of 25 to 30 major items of floating plant 2) operate tenders in transporting personnel supplies, and equipment; making and breaking up tows, and performing channel operations 3) conduct fire, lifeboat, man-overboard drills, and safety inspections 4) conduct preventative maintenance and inspections. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 B. I have the ability to perform the full range of tasks which includes: 1) operate a 2000 hp twin screw diesel-powered towboat over 100 feet in length; tow consisting of 25 to 30 major items of floating plant 2) operate tenders in transporting personnel supplies, and equipment; making and breaking up tows, and performing channel operations 3) conduct fire, lifeboat, man-overboard drills, and safety inspections 4) conduct preventative maintenance and inspections. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 C. I have the ability to perform common tasks which includes: 1) operate a 2,000 hp twin screw diesel-powered towboat over 100 feet in length; tow consisting of 25 to 30 major items of floating plant 2) operate tenders in transporting personnel supplies, and equipment; making and breaking up tows, and performing channel operations 3) conduct fire, lifeboat, man-overboard drills, and safety inspections 4) conduct preventative maintenance and inspections. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 D. I have the ability to perform simple tasks which includes: 1) operate a 2000 hp twin screw diesel powered towboat over 100 feet in length; tow consisting of 25 to 30 major items of floating plant 2) operate tenders in transporting personnel supplies, and equipment; making and breaking up tows, and performing channel operations 3) conduct fire, lifeboat, man-overboard drills, and safety inspections 4) conduct preventative maintenance and inspections.
 E. I do not possess the abilities described above.
2. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected