Position Title
Supervisory Recreation Assistant - Hickam Fitness
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25350-1 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 25, 2025 to Monday, September 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you reside within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position?

The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 A. Yes, I reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
 B. No, I do not reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
3. I am willing and able to travel away from my duty location.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I am willing and able to wear a prescribed uniform while performing duties of this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of Navy Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This questionnaire is a requirement for your application package and answers must be supported by your resume and/or additional documentation as necessary. The resume and supporting documents you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. Please ensure you read the questions thoroughly and review your responses for accuracy before you submit your assessment. Failure to respond to the question(s) will
1. This position requires the incumbent to communicate with all levels of the organization and understand/use proper grammar. Do you have the ability to communicate effectively in English, both orally and in writing, and possess strong interpersonal communication skills?
 A. Yes, I have the ability to communicate effectively in English, both orally and in writing, and I possess strong interpersonal communication skills.
 B. No, I do not have the ability to communicate effectively in English, neither orally or in writing, or possess strong interpersonal communication skills.
2. Choose the statement that best describes your ability to communicate effectively in English, both orally and in writing in a professional capacity, which includes conversing with all levels of the organization (i.e. peers, subordinates, mid and high-level management, etc.).
 A. I have 2 to 4 years of professional experience communicating information relating to duties and responsibilities assigned to me.
 B. I have at least 2 years of professional experience communicating information relating to duties and responsibilities assigned to me.
 C. I have at least 1 year of professional experience communicating information relating to duties and responsibilities assigned to me.
 D. None of these statements apply to me.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. Do you have an active or current American Red Cross certification of CPR/AED and First Aid?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Choose the statement that best describes your experience and/or education as it relates to this position. (MUST attach proof of education)
 A. I have at least 2 years of experience and working knowledge of the Fitness Program and activities.
 B. I have a degree from and accredited college/university in a fitness related field. (MUST attach proof of education)
 C. None of these statements apply to me.
For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.
5. Choose the statement that best describes your experience and/or knowledge of the operation of the facilities associated programs, which may include but is not limited to: Fitness, Sports, or Aquatics.
 A. I do not have experience or demonstrated capability in performing this activity, but I am willing to learn.
 B. I have limited experience in performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 C. I have a fair amount of experience and a fair amount of demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform this activity more effectively.
 D. I have considerable experience and considerable demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively.
 E. I have extensive experience and extensive demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I am considered an expert; I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. I have received verbal and/or written recognition from others in carrying out this activity.
6. Do you have knowledge of Department of Defense, Navy Recreation polices, regulations, instructions and administrative practices and procedures related to management, planning, budgeting, scheduling and coordination of recreation programs for the efficient use operation and use of assigned facilities and equipment?
 A. Yes, I have knowledge of Department of Defense, Navy Recreation polices, regulations, instructions and administrative practices and procedures related to management, planning, budgeting, scheduling and coordination of recreation programs for the efficient use operation and use of assigned facilities and equipment.
 B. No, I do not have knowledge of Department of Defense, Navy Recreation polices, regulations, instructions and administrative practices and procedures related to management, planning, budgeting, scheduling and coordination of recreation programs for the efficient use operation and use of assigned facilities and equipment.
7. Choose a statement to indicate how many years of experience you have in Department of Defense, Navy Recreation polices, regulations, instructions and administrative practices and procedures related to management, planning, budgeting, scheduling and coordination of recreation programs for the efficient use operation and use of assigned facilities and equipment?
 A. I have more than 2 years of experience in Navy Recreation polices regulations, instructions and administrative practices and procedures related to management, planning, budgeting, scheduling and coordination of recreation programs for the efficient use operation and use of assigned facilities and equipment.
 B. I have 1-2 years of experience in Navy Recreation polices regulations, instructions and administrative practices and procedures related to management, planning, budgeting, scheduling and coordination of recreation programs for the efficient use operation and use of assigned facilities and equipment.
 C. I have less than 1 year of experience in Navy Recreation polices, regulations, instructions and administrative practices and procedures related to management, planning, budgeting, scheduling and coordination of recreation programs for the efficient use operation and use of assigned facilities and equipment.
 D. I have no experience in Navy Recreation polices, regulations, instructions and administrative practices and procedures related to management, planning, budgeting, scheduling and coordination of recreation programs for the efficient use operation and use of assigned facilities and equipment.
8. Choose the statement that best describes your current or previous work experience in a related position.
 A. I have previously held a supervisory position related to fitness program and activities for at least 2 years.
 B. I am currently in a supervisory position related to fitness program and activities for at least 2 years.
 C. None of these statements apply to me.
9. Choose the statement that best describes your work experience in using basic computer software such as Microsoft Word, Excel, and Power Point.
 A. I have 3 or more years of fulltime work experience using basic computer software such as Microsoft Word, Excel, and Power Point.
 B. I have 1 to 2 years of fulltime work experience using basic computer software such as Microsoft Word, Excel, and Power Point.
 C. I have no experience with basic computer software, but I am familiar with email programs such as Outlook or Gmail.
10. Incumbent is responsible for the budget, staffing, supplies, equipment, maintenance, and upkeep of the facilities. This includes equipment transfers, disposal and inspeactions, interviewing and training staff, personnel reviews, ordering and inventory of supllies, and placing work orders for repairs when needed. Indicate your experience below by selecting each box that applies. Ensure that your resume reflects the experience that you choose.
 A. Microsoft Office Suite (Excel, Word, Outlook)
 B. New hire interview
 C. Annual employee evaluations
 D. Employee scheduling
 E. Ordering supplies
 F. Monthly inventory
 G. Training employees (customer service, safety, etc.)
 H. Inspect equipment and/or safety gear
 I. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
11. This position requires the incumbent to be available and accessible at various hours including evenings, weekends, and holidays as necessary to meet mission requirements. Incumbent is also required to have a valid driver's license. Are you able to meet these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected