Position Title
SUPERVISORY TECHNICAL ENVIRONMENT PLANNER
Agency
Organization of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
Announcement Number
JCS-25-12780381-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 11, 2025 to Monday, August 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a position with higher graded promotional potential than previously held?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for Schedule A Disability appointments?

If eligible, provide proof of disability with appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

For more information, review https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/individuals-with-disabilities
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. .

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Were you formerly employed as a federal civilian on a permanent competitive service appointment below the target grade of the advertised position, AND you have not been separated from federal employment for at least 1-year (from the date of this application) OR you did not receive at least a Fully Successful (or equivalent) performance rating in your most recent career/career-conditional position?

If eligible, submit:
A copy of your most recent separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting:
you held a career or career-conditional appointment (Tenure 1 or 2); AND
your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Were you formerly employed as a federal civilian on a permanent competitive service appointment at or above the target grade of the advertised position? 
                                                                                              OR
Were you formerly employed as a federal civilian on a permanent competitive service appointment below the target grade of the advertised position AND your date of separation was 1 or more years ago (from the date of your application) AND you received at least a Fully Successfully (or equivalent) rating of record in your most recent Career/Career-conditional position?   

If eligible, submit:
A copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting:
you held a career or career-conditional appointment (Tenure 1 or 2); AND
your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).
 
A copy of your performance rating from your most recent permanent federal competitive service position.  Your performance rating must reflect at least a Fully Successful (or equivalent) rating.
 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and are applying a for a promotion?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).



 A. Yes
 B. No
15. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and have held a position at or above the target grade for this position?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).


 A. Yes
 B. No
16. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
are entitled to veterans preference?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
17. Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes your highest-level of experience for the Supervisory Technical Environment Planner, GS-0301-14 position. To be creditable, specialized experience must be at the next lower grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. Read all of the statements below completely before making your selection.

 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade-level (GS-13) in the federal service which is in or directly related to the line of work of the position. Creditable specialized experience includes: Applied Program Management to the planning and execution of technical, modeling and simulation (M&S), and command, control, communications, and computer (C4) support for Joint Training directed events; Participates in the development of budget and personnel staffing direction levels for all joint training modeling and simulation (M&S), and command, control, communications, and computer (C4) services; Provides planning, integration, operation and maintenance of technical command and control (C2) infrastructure, systems, networks, and models and simulations to support Combatant Command (CCMD) and Service Joint training events; Supports large-scale training events conducted on a global scale that impact the readiness of Combatant Command (CCMD), military organizational structures, functions, operations, and relationships within the U. S. Government and Agencies throughout DoD (Experience must be reflected in resume)
 B. My experience is not reflected in the statements above.
2. I have documented experience with command and control (C2) infrastructure, C2 systems, networks, and models and simulations that support multiple annual Combatant Command (CCMD) and Joint training events.

 A. True
 B. False
3. From the following responses, please select the statements that best describe your experience utilizing in the performance of a job. (Select all that apply)

 A. I have provided daily leadership in setting goals, objectives, and expected performance levels commensurate with an organization's strategic plan
 B. I have experience assessing subordinates' unique development needs and provide them with opportunities that maximize their capabilities and abilities to contribute to the achievement of organizational goals.
 C. I determined workforce requirements, developed manning documents, conducted recruitment and made recommendations for hiring employees.
 D. I have experience scheduling and supervising the daily efforts of a full-time organization of O-5 military officers and GS-14 and below personnel and contractor deliverables.
 E. I have an in-depth understanding of the concepts, principles, and practices of institutionalized strategic and long-range development and design for joint exercises.
 F. I have the ability to integrate strategic and long-range plans, activities, and resources so as to best support a joint training program.
 G. I have experience applying analytical rigor to the process across the entire spectrum of joint operations
 H. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response)
4. Please select the response that best describes your experience providing performance feed-back and requests technical infrastructure engineering support for real-world operations, and Joint training.

 A. Providing performance feed-back and requests technical infrastructure engineering support for real-world operations, and Joint training has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 B. I have provided performance feed-back and requests technical infrastructure engineering support for real-world operations, and Joint training as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee.
 C. I have provided performance feed-back and requests technical infrastructure engineering support for real-world operations, and Joint training under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 D. I have completed formal education or training in Joint training and real-world operations, but have not yet utilized that knowledge to provide performance feed-back and requests technical infrastructure engineering support
 E. I have not had experience or training in Joint training and real-world operations
5. Do you have documented management experience in joint training, joint operations, Joint Tactics Techniques and Procedures, modeling, and simulation (M&S), and command, control, communications, and computer (C4) processes and architectures?

 A. No
 B. Yes
6. Please select the response that best describes your experience serving as a Program Manager providing a full spectrum of live, virtual, and constructive expertise for command, control, communications.

 A. I have experience serving as a Program Manager providing a full spectrum of live, virtual, and constructive expertise for command, control, communications on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 B. I have served as a Program Manager providing a full spectrum of live, virtual, and constructive expertise for command, control, communications as a regular part of a job, often independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 C. I have completed formal education or training in providing a full spectrum of live, virtual, and constructive expertise for command, control, communications, but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 D. Serving as a Program Manager providing a full spectrum of live, virtual, and constructive expertise for command, control, communications has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this duty routinely without supervision, and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 E. I have not had experience, education, or training in the full spectrum of live, virtual, and constructive expertise for command, control, communications.
7. Do you have detailed knowledge of military organizational structures, functions, operations, and relationships within the U.S. Government?

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. I have documented experience with planning, implementing, and executing command, control, communications, and computer (C4) architectures, and simulations with C4 interfaces, modeling and simulation (M&S) architectures for Joint training events.

 A. False
 B. True
9. Of the following duties, select all that you have utilized to provide technical and administrative support for coalition exercises? (Select all that apply)

 A. Analyzed joint, CCMD and Service exercise objectives, exercise scenarios, force structures, and go-to-war command and control systems and processes3
 B. Coordinated with the Training Information Systems Security Manager (ISSM), to ensure events are executed in compliance with appropriate DOD policies, directives and letters of instruction.
 C. Coordinated technical infrastructure engineering support for an agencies complex, real-world operations, and Joint training and experimentation
 D. Supported a Joint National Training Capability accreditation, and certification program.
 E. Provided support to large-scale training events conducted on a global scale directly impacting the readiness of CCMDs, Services and Agencies throughout DoD and enables the daily operations agency personnel staff.
 F. Provide management oversight and direction.
 G. Provide guidance for functional managers and subordinate supervisors to facilitate organizational effectiveness and efficiency.
 H. None of the above (If selected, this should be your only response)
10. Select the response that best describes your experience directing budget, and personnel staffing levels for all modeling and simulation (M&S), and command, control, communications, and computer (C4) services provided for agency supported events, to include mission rehearsal events for units preparing for deployment.

 A. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely without supervision, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 B. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, often independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 C. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 D. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 E. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
11. Select all the following responses that best describe your knowledge and/or experience utilizing in the performance of a job. (Select all that apply)

 A. I possess broad knowledge of joint combat models and simulation.
 B. Ability to visualize and articulate relationships among complex technical requirements and exercise objectives.
 C. Provided support to a Chairman and/or SES or Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS)/Combatant Commander level joint training and exercise programs.
 D. Keep apprised of current on training initiatives, changes to technical and operational warfighting requirements and continuing improvement to existing processes and procedures.
 E. Considered a subject matter expert for Modeling and Simulation and Telecommunications networks, to include Joint Live, Virtual and Constructive (JLVC) training and the Joint Training Enterprise Network (JTEN).
 F. Provided accountability for all technical equipment used to support events, tests and demonstrations, including Joint Live Virtual and Constructive (JLVC), Joint Theater Level Simulation (JTLS), Joint Training Tools (JTT), and JTEN equipment in technical control spaces.
 G. Supported both the Environment Architecture Division and the Resource & Acquisition Management Office (RAMO) programming and budget personnel.
 H. None of the above (If selected, this should be your only response)
12. Select the response that best describes your experience developing all budgeting and financial documents, studies, spreadsheets and presentations for a multi-million-dollar technical operations and maintenance (O&M) program and other procurement (OP) budget areas of responsibility.

 A. I have developing all budgeting and financial documents, studies, spreadsheets and presentations for a multi-million dollar technical operations and maintenance (O&M) program and other procurement (OP) budget areas of responsibility as a regular part of a job, often independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 B. I have not had experience, education, or training in budgeting and financial documents, studies, spreadsheets and presentations for a multi-million-dollar technical operations and maintenance (O&M) program.
 C. Developing all budgeting and financial documents, studies, spreadsheets and presentations for a multi-million dollar technical operations and maintenance (O&M) program and other procurement (OP) budget areas of responsibility has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely without supervision, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 D. I have completed formal education or training in budgeting and financial documents, studies, spreadsheets and presentations for a multi-million-dollar technical operations and maintenance (O&M) program, but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 E. I have developing all budgeting and financial documents, studies, spreadsheets and presentations for a multi-million dollar technical operations and maintenance (O&M) program and other procurement (OP) budget areas of responsibility on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
13. Of the following duties, select all that you have utilized for the management of employees and programs? (Select all that apply)
 A. Direct executive-staff through subordinate supervisors
 B. Assign and review work of subordinates
 C. Approve full range of personnel management actions
 D. Approve and implement organizational change proposals recommended by subordinate supervisors
 E. Develop long-range organizational plans and goals
 F. Provide management oversight and direction.
 G. Provide guidance for functional managers and subordinate supervisors to facilitate organizational effectiveness and efficiency.
 H. None of the above (If selected, this should be your only response)
14. Do you have demonstrated experience hearing and resolving complaints from employees?
 A. Yes
 B. No
15. Which of the following managerial functions do you have documented working experience? (Select all that apply)
 A. Effectuate Minor disciplinary measures
 B. Recommending action in serious cases
 C. Identifying developmental and training needs of employees
 D. Providing development and training
 E. Discover ways to improve production or increase the quality of work.
 F. Find ways to promote team building.
 G. None of the above (If selected, this should be your only response)
16. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience actively supporting and promoting all aspects of the EEO Program and Affirmative Action Plan as directed by applicable laws
 A. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 B. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task
 D. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely without supervision, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 E. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, often independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
17. From the following responses, please select all the statement that best describes your experience applying in a leadership role. (Select all that apply)
 A. Provide senior leadership and guidance to the entire Joint Training organization in its DoD-wide training mission
 B. Exercises direct authority over operations, organizational performance, special and staff actions across the Deputy Directorate.
 C. Supervises, manages, and leads the personnel assigned to a Deputy Directorate
 D. Leads and manages organizational changes throughout a Deputy Directorate
 E. Frequently represents a Deputy Director (DD) to the Joint Staff and OSD
 F. Advises/assists a DD on all matters related to joint training policy, personnel matters, financial oversight, and strategy
 G. Provides advice, counsel, and mentorship to employees on both work and administrative matters.
 H. None of the above (If selected, this should be your only response)
18. Please select all you have experience in regard to the planning of work to be accomplished by subordinates? (Select all that apply)
 A. Set and adjust short term priorities
 B. Prepares schedules for completion of work
 C. Assign work based on priorities
 D. Consider difficulties of assignments with capabilities of employees.
 E. Evaluate work performance
 F. None of the above (If selected, this should be your only response)
19. From the following responses, please select all that best describe your documented experience applying team building skills on a job. (Select all that apply)

 A. Coordinated the actions of ten divisions and coordinates operations and actions internal and external to the Deputy Directorate.
 B. Direct, coordinate, or oversee work through supervisors, leaders, team chiefs, or comparable personnel.
 C. Directs tasks to the team leads and subordinates for the initiation of design related functions to support the training objectives of the designated audience.
 D. Finds / implements ways to eliminate or reduce bottlenecks to production, promote team building and improve business practices.
 E. Exercise significant responsibilities in dealing with senior officials of other organizations for collaborative work efforts.
 F. Establishes work priorities and assigns tasks required to identify Modeling and Simulation (M&S), networking and C4 requirements for education, training, and exercises
 G. Supervises exercise design activities to ensure the Modeling and Simulation and C4 architectures support the needs of the training audience
 H. Determines whether contractor performed work meets standards of adequacy necessary for authorization of payment.
 I. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response)
20. Select the statement that best describes your experience leading a Joint Training Directorate to provide the full spectrum joint exercise support and capability that enables the directorate to provide trained, capable and interoperable joint forces to Combatant Commands (CCMDs).

 A. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 B. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely without supervision, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 C. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, often independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 E. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
21. From the following list of communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied. (Select all that apply)

 A. Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective.
 B. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments.
 C. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff.
 D. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations.
 E. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals.
 F. Organizes work, sets priorities, and determines resource requirements.
 G. Implements and/or utilizes strategic plans on a daily basis.
 H. None of the above (If selected, this should be your only response)
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected