Position Title
SUPERVISORY CUSTOMS ENTRY OFFICER
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OFO-IMP-12758797-MLL Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 21, 2025 to Friday, July 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1.
Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from DHS?  If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under non-temporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
3. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
4. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
5.

All newly appointed, first-time CBP supervisors are required to complete the mandatory leadership training. The Office of Training and Development will schedule eligible supervisors to attend within the first 90 days of appointment. All newly appointed, first time permanent supervisors shall attain the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to successfully perform their supervisory responsibilities by completing required leadership training in accordance with current agency policy.

NOTE: This training may be waived if previously completed.

Do you acknowledge that you have read and understand the above requirement, including current or former first time supervisors who have previously completed the mandatory training and will not be required to retake the course?

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
7. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-13 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes responding to and resolving technical and operational questions regarding the programs supervised, setting and adjusting priorities and preparing schedules for completion of work, performing a full range of supervisory functions including interviewing candidates, recommending rewards, counseling and discussing employee performance requirements, hearing and resolving grievances, and taking disciplinary actions, analyzing customs documents and applying/interpreting customs laws, regulations, requirements and procedures, and determining rates of duty, classification of merchandise, and entry requirements.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
Assessment 1
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
1. Indicate the extent of your experience in planning and preparing schedules.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had limited experience in planning or preparing schedules either for a small team or for brief periods of time.
 C. I have planned and scheduled the day-to-day work of my immediate work unit on a continuous basis.
 D. I have performed mid- to long-range (that is, quarterly or annual) planning and scheduling of work for my immediate work unit when there were complicating factors (for example, conflicting priorities, work involving multiple disciplines).
 E. I have directed and overseen the planning and scheduling of work for a multi-unit organization. I have established criteria and priorities and reviewed, amended, and consolidated the plans developed by subordinates.
2. Indicate the extent of your experience in developing plans for a program or an organization.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. Under the close guidance of others, I have developed short-range plans for a program (for example, set timelines, established milestones, identified needed resources).
 C. I have independently developed both short- and long-range plans for a program or organization (for example, set timelines, established milestones, identified needed resources).
 D. I have overseen the development of plans that were broad in scope or were complex, involving multiple entities.
3. Indicate the extent of your experience in developing and overseeing contingency plans such as hazardous materials plans and continuity of operations plans.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have participated in contingency plan exercises, or I have assisted in the development of segments of contingency plans, such as procedures for maintaining the lines of communication within a team during emergency or special situations.
 C. I have led the contingency plan exercises for my immediate team or have developed segments of plans, such as procedures for maintaining the lines of communication across teams during emergency or special situations.
 D. I have had a leadership role in the development or conduct of agency-wide contingency plans or exercises for emergency or special situations.
4. Indicate the extent of your experience in translating goals into action plans.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have participated in a local process/project to develop action items for an action plan that supported established goals for a specific program area.
 C. I have led a local process/project to develop action items for an action plan that supported established goals for a specific program area.
 D. I have led a process/project for the conversion of agency goals to an action plan for a primary organizational unit or equivalent.
 E. I have overseen the process/project for the conversion of agency goals to action plans. I have monitored these action plans, made appropriate adjustments, and measured goal accomplishment.
5. Indicate the extent of your experience in tracking and controlling a budget.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have entered costs in spreadsheets and standard forms.
 C. I have tracked budget transactions and approved budget requests in an organization.
 D. I have had experience in overseeing, reviewing, and approving budget requests and expenditures for large programs and/or offices in an organization.
6. Indicate the extent of your experience in assigning work to subordinates based on priorities, requirements of assignments, and capabilities of the employees.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had some experience in assigning work as a team leader or an acting supervisor.
 C. I have had experience as a supervisor in assigning work to subordinates and adjusting those assignments based on changing priorities and demonstrated skills of employees.
 D. I have had experience as a second- or third-level supervisor in assigning program and project responsibilities to subordinate units.
7. Indicate the extent of your experience in ensuring that the work environment is safe.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had some training or familiarization with safety concepts, and I am able to identify and report typical worksite hazards.
 C. I have participated in the local safety program and served as a team member on a formal safety inspection.
 D. I have participated in the local safety program and have instructed subordinates in safe work practices. I have investigated occupational injuries and illnesses, and I have identified and mitigated hazardous conditions that were reported to me.
8. Indicate the extent of your experience in interviewing and evaluating candidates and making recommendations for selection.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have provided recommendations on employees assigned to me, noting their strengths and weaknesses.
 C. I have participated in ranking panels or have conducted structured interviews or their equivalents.
 D. I have interviewed candidates, evaluated applications, and made recommendations for selection to selecting officials.
 E. I have developed and applied evaluation and selection processes (interview questions, application review, and reference checks) and/or have made selections or have trained others to make selections for a variety of positions.
9. Indicate the extent of your experience in resolving budget issues.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had some experience in identifying the impact of current budget limits on my organization or program.
 C. I have had experience in identifying and prioritizing competing budget demands.
 D. I have had experience in developing and applying a formal budget process to resolve competing demands, ensuring that the highest priority work is supported and ensuring that all programs receive appropriate budget resources.
10. Indicate the extent to which you have approved requests for resources based on analysis of needs and other relevant factors.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have approved short-term requests for resources based on a review of requests submitted by a third party.
 C. I have conducted independent reviews and analyses of resource requests, prioritizing approvals based on current resource levels and existing policies.
 D. I have participated in multi-year resource needs analyses indexed to future year funding and projections for available resources.
 E. I have been responsible for compiling and approving a multi-year resource request based on analysis of organizational goals, priorities, and funding projections.
11. Indicate the extent of your experience in formulating budget recommendations based on fiscal analysis of program needs.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this function.
 B. I have formulated budget recommendations and estimates for small projects or operations.
 C. I have reviewed the current fiscal status of my organization or program and developed budget recommendations and fiscal estimates based on my review.
 D. I have performed detailed fiscal analyses of an organization(s) and programs and developed budget recommendations to resolve complex issues and problems.
12. Indicate the extent to which you have prepared budget justifications based on staffing, facilities, and equipment.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have reviewed budget requests and tracked transactions to support or justify obligations, taking into account staffing, facilities, and equipment.
 C. I have developed and prepared budgets, budget requests, and proposed expenditures to support a department's mission, taking into account staffing, facilities, and equipment.
 D. I have developed budget requirements that included the reallocation of funds to support facilities, staff, and services.
13. Indicate the extent of your experience in determining personnel resource requirements.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have calculated the number of personnel to cover established schedules.
 C. I have measured and estimated workload levels and the personnel levels needed to address the workload.
 D. I have measured and estimated workload and personnel levels for a large organization involving multiple disciplines and subordinate organizational levels.
14. Have you met/negotiated with various parties to help resolve grievances/appeals?

 A. YES
 B. NO
15. Do you have experience in interpreting and applying negotiated employee-management agreements?

 A. YES
 B. NO
16. Have you analyzed grievances, arbitration cases, appeals (for example, MSPB), or unfair labor practices to identify trends, make improvements, or provide briefings to upper management?

 A. YES
 B. NO
17. Select the choice which best describes your knowledge of and experience with performance appraisal systems/approaches.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have a basic knowledge of performance appraisal systems and approaches.
 C. I have prepared performance appraisal objectives and standards and formally rated employees' performance.
 D. I have implemented, maintained, and monitored a performance appraisal system for a work unit, which included rating subordinates' performance and evaluating performance ratings assigned by other supervisors.
18. Indicate the extent of your knowledge and experience in labor and employee relations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had some experience in dealing with labor and employee relations issues (for example, performance and conduct issues), and I am knowledgeable of relevant contract provisions and personnel regulations.
 C. I have had experience in dealing with contract and/or administrative grievances, or I have participated in negotiations with the local union officials.
 D. I have had extensive experience with grievances, arbitrations, negotiations, performance or conduct issues, or nonbargaining unit appeal procedures.
19. Do you have experience in documenting, developing, or proposing employee disciplinary actions?

 A. YES
 B. NO
20. Indicate the extent of your experience in reviewing work products of subordinates and accepting, rejecting, or amending work.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had some experience, gained while serving as a team leader or acting supervisor, in reviewing work products of subordinates and accepting, rejecting, or amending work.
 C. I have had extensive experience, gained as a supervisor/manager, in reviewing work products of subordinates and accepting, rejecting, or amending their work.
21. Indicate the extent of your experience in improving the efficiency and quality of the work performed.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have made specific changes that have improved my efficiency and the quality of my work.
 C. I have recommended specific changes that have improved my work unit's efficiency and the quality of its work.
 D. I have recommended changes that have been adopted by multiple work units and have improved their efficiency and the quality of their work.
22. Indicate the extent of your experience in monitoring or developing performance measurements to evaluate the effectiveness of operations and/or assist in program administration.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have made recommendations based on my evaluation of performance measurements used to determine the effectiveness of operations and/or program administration.
 C. I have developed performance measurements used to evaluate the effectiveness of operations and/or assist in program administration, and have monitored the use of these measurements.
 D. I have supervised the development of performance measurements used to evaluate the effectiveness of operations and program administration, as well as the evaluation of operations and program administration.
23. Select the choice which best describes your ability to establish and maintain effective working relations outside of the organization.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have provided routine information, resolved simple problems, questions, or complaints, and directed nonroutine problems, questions, or complaints to the appropriate person/office.
 C. I have maintained relationships with members of the public who have varied needs, assessed their needs, and provided moderately complex information to them. I have resolved fairly complex or nonroutine problems, questions, or complaints.
 D. I have developed and maintained relationships with interest groups with varied needs, anticipated and assessed their needs, and provided complex information to them. I have resolved complex or nonroutine problems, questions, or complaints.
24. Indicate the extent to which you have gathered and analyzed facts, determined the accuracy of the data, defined the problem, and identified solutions.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have gathered data/information in preparation for analysis by others.
 C. I have gathered data/information, analyzed it, and summarized the results of my findings.
 D. I have gathered data/information, performed analyses, summarized results, and identified problem areas.
 E. I have gathered statistical data and narrative information, performed analyses, summarized results, identified problem areas, and proposed/implemented solutions.
25. Have you independently planned, scheduled, and carried out major processes and projects?

 A. YES
 B. NO
26. Indicate the extent of your experience in handling stressful situations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have dealt with occasional periods of mild stress as part of my regular job duties.
 C. As part of my regular job duties, I have dealt on a daily basis with moderate stress (for example, handling heavy workloads, meeting tight deadlines).
 D. As part of my regular job duties, I have frequently dealt with highly stressful situations (for example, rapidly changing priorities, dealing face-to-face with hostile or violent individuals, handling crisis situations).
27. Select the choice which best describes the extent of your knowledge of internal and external politics in the work place and your ability to apply this knowledge to situations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have a basic understanding of internal and external politics in the work place.
 C. I have a thorough understanding of internal and external politics in the work place, acquired through on-the-job experience and formal training, and I have routinely applied this knowledge in work situations.
 D. I have expert knowledge of internal and external politics in the work place, acquired from extensive supervisory/managerial experience, and I have applied this knowledge to enhance the effectiveness of my organization.
28. Indicate the extent of your experience in responding to Congressional, interagency, intra-agency, or industry inquiries/complaints.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have drafted portions of responses for higher-level review on Congressional, interagency, intra-agency, or industry inquiries based on my understanding of Federal laws, rules, regulations, policies and procedures.
 C. I have written responses/testimony and represented the organization on Congressional, interagency, intra-agency, or industry inquiries based on knowledge of Federal laws, rules, regulations, policies, and procedures.
29. Select the choice which best describes your ability to stimulate creative thinking and innovation in others.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have interacted with others on an individual basis seeking new solutions to a problem.
 C. I have participated in groups or panels that successfully formulated innovative methods to achieve an assigned task.
 D. I have led a group of employees in developing an innovative and improved process(es) in my field.
30. Indicate the extent to which you have identified the impact and implications of alternative decisions on your program or organization.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have participated in brainstorming sessions convened to identify the impact of various proposals on a specific issue.
 C. I have led a workgroup charged with determining the most viable option for resolving a matter, and made a formal recommendation to superiors.
 D. I have developed and presented written analyses of the predicted impact on the organization at the national level of any of multiple alternative proposals, including justification for a recommended course of action.
31. Indicate the extent of your experience in developing and interpreting policy on designated programs.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted and provided input to my superiors or subject-matter experts concerning the development of a new policy or the application of a new policy to a specific program.
 C. I have drafted and/or studied proposals for the implementation of new policies or provided recommendations for the application of policies to a specific program.
 D. I have independently developed and implemented new policies that impacted a specific program or interpreted the program response to far-reaching policy directives.
32. Indicate the extent of your experience in inspiring, motivating, and/or guiding others toward accomplishment of goals.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had limited experience, gained primarily as a team leader or acting supervisor, in inspiring, motivating, and/or guiding others toward the accomplishment of specific goals/objectives assigned to the team.
 C. I have had extensive experience, gained as a supervisor or manager, in inspiring, motivating, and/or guiding others toward the accomplishment of goals by monitoring their work and providing guidance, training, and/or direction as needed.
33. Indicate the extent of your experience in building support for ideas and initiatives inside and outside the organization.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had limited experience in building support for ideas and initiatives inside and outside the organization gained by seeking support for ideas or initiatives under close guidance.
 C. I have sought support for ideas and initiatives with the result that these ideas/initiatives have been included in major recommendations made by others.
 D. I have analyzed the pros and cons of key ideas/initiatives and clearly elucidated these options with the result that the ideas/initiatives were successfully implemented.
34. Indicate the extent of your experience in recruiting and selecting personnel.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in the recruitment and selection of personnel.
 C. I have been responsible for recruiting personnel and developing recommendations for selection.
 D. I have overseen the recruitment of personnel, and I have made selections of staff members based on my own review and the recommendations of lower level staff members.
35. Indicate the extent of your experience in monitoring and evaluating work plans.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. Under the close guidance of others, I have evaluated the effectiveness of work plans.
 C. I have independently evaluated the effectiveness of work plans and assessed progress toward achieving mission objectives.
 D. I have supervised and approved the work of those responsible for evaluating the effectiveness of work plans and assessed progress toward achieving mission objectives.
36. Indicate the extent of your experience with equal opportunity programs and requirements.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have a basic knowledge of EEO programs and requirements acquired through relevant training courses or on-the-job experience.
 C. I have provided input in developing strategies needed to ensure progress toward strategic EEO goals or objectives.
 D. I have led others in developing strategies to ensure progress toward strategic EEO goals or objectives.
37. Indicate the extent of your experience in supporting and implementing changes in policies, procedures, and organizational structure.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have worked with my peers to implement changes in policies, procedures, and organizational structure.
 C. I have disseminated information about changes in policies, procedures, and organizational structure to peers and/or subordinates and explained the impact of these changes.
 D. I have disseminated information about changes in policies, procedures, and organizational structure, explained the impact of these changes to internal and external stakeholders, and ensured that the changes were implemented.
38. Select the choice which best describes the extent of your experience in and responsibility for employee training.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have been responsible for providing informal on-the-job training to peers and subordinates.
 C. In addition to providing informal on-the-job training to peers and subordinates, I have been responsible for identifying subordinates' training needs and recommending different types of training.
 D. I have identified subordinates' training needs and ensured that the necessary development and/or training was provided to improve the efficiency and quality of the work.
39. As part of your duties or assignments, have you identified areas of performance in which subordinates needed improvement and counseling?

 A. YES
 B. NO
40. Select the choice which best indicates your experience in establishing processes intended to improve and develop employees.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had input into the development or implementation of local policies/procedures for improving and developing employees.
 C. I have worked as a supervisor or team leader to recommend, develop, and implement local policies/procedures that serve to improve and develop employees.
 D. I have managed projects and programs where I established and implemented local policies/procedures for improving and developing employees.
41. Indicate the extent of your experience in reporting to higher level officials on program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have reported primarily to my immediate supervisor, either formally or informally, on program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.
 C. I have given formal briefings to higher level officials in the organization regarding program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.
 D. I have given formal written reports and oral briefings to higher level officials both within and outside my organization regarding program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.
42. Select the choice which best describes your experience in working in teams to complete a work-related project.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have been a member of a team, tasked with a specific work-related project that successfully met its goals and objectives.
 C. I have led one or more teams tasked with a complex or challenging work-related project that successfully met its goals and objectives.
43. Select the choice which best describes your experience in responding to new information, changing conditions, or unexpected obstacles.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have adapted to minor or temporary changes affecting my own assignments or work schedule by rescheduling work or refocusing my efforts.
 C. I have rearranged some priorities and rescheduled a significant amount of work to accommodate changes in resources or goals. I have recommended new methods in situations in which established procedures were unavailable or inapplicable.
 D. I have rearranged virtually all work priorities and schedules to accommodate sudden major changes, problems, or setbacks. I have chosen or developed new methods in situations in which established procedures were unavailable or inapplicable.
44. Indicate the extent of your experience in defusing potentially volatile/difficult situations and providing interested parties with opportunities to voice their concerns.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had experience in defusing potentially volatile/difficult situations involving one or two individuals.
 C. I have had experience in defusing potentially volatile/difficult situations involving a group.
 D. I have had extensive experience in defusing potentially volatile/difficult situations involving multiple groups.
45. Select the choice which best describes your ability to communicate with all levels of managers, staff members, and outside groups.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have communicated with other staff members and managers in the routine performance of my duties.
 C. I have conducted meetings with and provided training for staff members or outside groups.
 D. I have presented briefings on program areas to higher level managers or internal/external organizations or agencies.
 E. I have represented a program or organization in high level conferences and/or meetings or acted as a liaison to other internal/external organizations or agencies.
46. Have you written standard operating procedures (SOPs) or agency policies?

 A. YES
 B. NO
47. Indicate the extent to which you have been involved in public relations activities.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have participated in job fairs and college recruitment activities.
 C. I have made presentations representing the agency at trade shows, community organizations, or local groups, and/or coordinated the agency's participation in public relations activities.
 D. I have presented formal briefings/speeches to the media, Members of Congress, and the general public on varied and controversial or complex issues.
48. Select the choice that best describes how you have interacted with others, including all levels of employees and management and external parties (for example, media, Congress, trade community).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have interacted successfully with others primarily in my own organization on tasks/projects.
 C. I have interacted successfully with others at various levels both within and external to my work organization to resolve work-related problems by providing pertinent information.
 D. I have provided interpretation, technical guidance, and direction to the media, congressional staff members, and/or the trade community.
49. Select the choice which best describes your ability to communicate in writing.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written responses to requests for information, or I have edited non-technical writing from others.
 C. I have written policies, procedures, training manuals, and/or other technical materials.
 D. I have explained in writing the application of laws, regulations, precedents, covering legal actions, or I have written congressional testimony that presented sensitive or controversial information.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected