Position Title
Supervisory IT Program Manager
Agency
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Information and Technology
Announcement Number
CRR-25-SH-12784901 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 18, 2025 to Wednesday, August 20, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position you will be separated from; AND,
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; AND, 
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences

Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:

Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.

1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.
1. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 A. YES
 B. NO
Time-In-Grade: This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at GS-14. For the GS-14 grade level, you must have completed at least 52 weeks at the next lower grade, GS-13. Please select the one response that supports the grade level TIG requirements you meet. (Please review all options before selecting a response)
2. Select the response below that most accurately describes you:

 A. I have one year of time-in-grade at the GS-13 grade level.
 B. The time-in-grade requirement does not apply to me (I have not held a GS position in the past 52 weeks)
 C. I am a current federal employee, but I do not meet the time-in-grade requirement as specified above.
Basic Requirement: Carefully read the following and select ONE statement below that best describes how your experience meets the basic requirements for an Supervisory IT Program Manager, GS-2210-14.

For this position, individuals must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below. The employing agency is responsible for identifying the specific level of proficiency required for each competency at each grade level based on the requirements of the position being filled.
Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail. 
Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
NOTE: The basic requirements MUST be substantiated in your resume. Failure to provide the required information will render your application ineligible for consideration. Read all responses before making your selection.
3. Do you possess the Basic Requirements as described above?

 A. YES, I have the experience described above and it is clearly demonstrated within my resume.
 B. NO, my experience is not described above.
Specialized Experience: You must possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 level. Specialized experience for this position is defined as mastery knowledge and experience in program management (PMI, PMBOK), Federal Acquisition Certification - Program/Project Management (FAC-P/PM) or Defense Acquisition University (DAU) Project Management Certification. Mastery knowledge of and experience in project management disciplines such as requirements, analysis, project planning, budgeting, cost analysis, acquisition, configuration management, data management, information systems, network security, IT architecture, data storage and related IT data center system hardware and software projects. This position requires the application of expert leadership and managerial skills. Additionally, the incumbent applies technical expertise in project and risk management and serves as an expert advisor to other leaders and teams across OIT. Mastery technical knowledge based and understanding of VA enterprise architectures and data models, hardware and software standards and VA strategic technical initiatives and System of System engineering challenges to develop and deploy compatible solutions. Mastery knowledge of and experience in project management disciplines such as requirements, analysis, project planning, budgeting, cost analysis, acquisition, configuration management, data management, information systems, network security and IT architecture, inter- and intra-network systems, data storage and other related IT data center system hardware and software projects. Mastery knowledge of and experience of hardware, software, operating systems and peripherals available in the industry and understand the relationships between operating systems and hardware on which they run in order to analyze and develop efficient IT solutions.
4. Choose the one answer that best describes your experience.

 A. I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 in Federal service, as described above.
 B. I do not meet the above requirements.
Assessment 2
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.
1. Which of the following is a primary responsibility of the incumbent in this IT Specialist role?

 A. Designing marketing materials
 B. Serving as a Supervisor and Program Manager for IT projects of varying size and complexity
 C. Managing customer service inquiries
 D. Conducting financial audits
2. What type of tasks will the incumbent perform related to program risk management and software management technologies?

 A. Financial auditing
 B. Serving as an expert technical advisor to VA senior executive leadership and stakeholders
 C. Designing promotional events
 D. Conducting surveys
3. What is an essential task when working with business customer stakeholders?

 A. Conducting performance reviews
 B. Determining prospective products or services to meet IT requirements
 C. Organizing company picnics
 D. Managing office inventories
4. Which of the following tasks involves managing the lifecycle of IT projects and systems?

 A. Coordinating entertainment events
 B. Overseeing acquisition, development, modification, enhancement, deployment, or decommissioning of IT products and services
 C. Conducting office layout planning
 D. Designing event flyers
5. What type of meetings is the incumbent expected to participate in regularly to provide oversight and input?

 A. Social gatherings
 B. Governance Councils, Integrated Project Team (IPT) meetings, SCRUMs, and Technical Interchange Meetings (TIMS)
 C. Taste testing sessions
 D. To communicate with stakeholders and leadership
6. Which of the following activities relates to Section 508 compliance?

 A. Managing payroll systems
 B. Providing oversight into the implementation of Section 508 requirements
 C. Coordinating office supplies
 D. Conducting event planning
7. What specialized experiences are essential for this program management role? (Select all that apply)

 A. Expertise in graphic design
 B. Comprehensive understanding of VA enterprise architecture and data models
 C. Mastery knowledge of project management disciplines such as requirements analysis, project planning, budgeting, and cost analysis
 D. Proficiency in culinary arts
8. Which supervisory responsibilities does the incumbent have? (Select all that apply)

 A. Organizing company picnics
 B. Reviewing and assigning work, improving work methods, and ensuring productivity and quality
 C. Preparing and conducting program reviews for senior leadership
 D. Designing product packaging
9. Describe your experience in managing IT programs with significant budgetary responsibilities. How did you ensure financial conditions were maintained in alignment with program goals?

10. How do you approach developing and implementing IT project plans to meet system solution objectives? Provide an example of a successful project you led.

 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected