Position Title
LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT OFFICER
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
DE-12794790-AR-25-082 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 4, 2025 to Friday, September 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. All on-board National Guard Title 32 Excepted Technicians within the state for which you are applying (Title 32 Permanent and Excepted Indefinite).  Are you a current on-board National Guard Title 32 Excepted Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1, 2, or 3).
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. US Citizens.  Are you a US Citizen?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current Permanent full-time Dual Status National Guard Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Permanent full-time status with the state National Guard.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. Are you an active member of the Delaware Army National Guard?

 A. I am a member of the Delaware Army National Guard
 B. No, I am not an active member of the Delaware Army National Guard however I am willing to join
 C. No, I am not an active member of the Delaware Army National Guard but I am NOT willing to join
2. This position requires membership in the Delaware Army National Guard and is only open to applicants in (Area 1). Please indicate your status below.

 A. I am a Permanent or Indefinite On-Board Title 32 Employee. (Area 1)
 B. I am a Delaware National Guard On-Board Title 5 Employee with Military Membership in the Delaware Army National Guard. (Area 2)
 C. I am a current Temporary Title 32 Employee, Traditional military member (M-Day & DSG), or AGR Member. (Area 3)
 D. I am a current State employee (Area 4)
 E. I am not a member of the Delaware Army National Guard.
3. This position is only open to military members in the ranks of O-3 (CPT) thru O-5 (LTC). Choose the option below that fits your status.

 A. My rank falls within the requirements for the position.
 B. My rank exceeds the maximum rank, however I am willing to take a reduction to become qualified for this position.
 C. My rank does NOT fall within the requirements for this position.
 D. I am a civilian.
4. Compatibility is defined as being a member of the Delaware Army National Guard. However, Do you possess or are you eligible to obtain the following MOS 15A OR 15B

 A. Yes, I have the 15A or 15B MOS
 B. No, I do not have the15A or 15B MOS but I'm willing to reclass/acquire
 C. No, I do not have the 15A or 15B MOS and I'm not willing to reclass/acquire it
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. Do you have or are you eligible to obtain and maintain a Secret Security Clearance?

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. For consideration of this position you must be a qualified UH-60L Maintenance Test Pilot.

Do you meet this qualification?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. GS-13 -1-year specialized experience, education or training equivalent to at least the next lower grade level of GS-12. Must have experience, education, or training which includes identifying activities involving logistical support operations. Experience integrating the actions of a variety of specialized support activities in order to develop a comprehensive logistics plan. Experience monitoring such functions as program planning, resource and fiscal management, training, manpower management, and/or automated data processing to meet the logistics plan. Experience in base level strategic planning, setting base policy, and developing installation guidelines that have application across organizational lines within the wing and any Geographically Separated Units. Experience identifying delays or problems and developing corrective actions. Experience identifying delays or problems and developing corrective actions. Do you meet this requirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. For Supervisory Positions, the following Specialized Experience is required: Must have experience in managing the function of the work to be performed. Experience which includes leading, directing and assigning work of personnel.

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Qualifications Acknowledge Statement - Do you understand and certify that you will comply with the requirements listed below?

Qualifications are based on your ability to demonstrate in your resume that you possess one year of the specialized experience for this announcement at a comparable scope and responsibility. To ensure all of the essential information is in your resume, we encourage you to use the USAJOBS online Resume Builder (https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/how-to/account/documents/resume/build/). If you choose to use your own resume, it must contain the following information organized by experience/position: (1) job title, (2) name of employer, (3) start and end dates of each period of employment (from MM/DD/YY to MM/DD/YY), (4) detailed description of duties performed, accomplishments, and related skills, and (5) hours worked per week (full-time employment and part-time employment will be prorated in crediting experience). Federal experience/positions must also include the occupational series, grade level, and dates in which you held each grade level.

Determining length of General or Specialized Experience is dependent on the above information. Failure to provide the above information in your resume may result in your application being found "not qualified."

Do not copy and paste the duties, specialized experience, or occupational assessment questionnaire from this announcement into your resume as that will not be considered a demonstration of your qualifications for this position.

Your resume serves as the basis for experience related qualification determinations, and you must highlight your most relevant and significant work experience and education (if applicable), as it relates to this job opportunity. Please use your own words, be clear, and specific when describing your work history. We cannot make assumptions regarding your experience.

 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Did you provide the documents listed below with your application?

Current resume (Required)
DD-214 (Not Required)
DNG 51-R (Required)

Other Branches of Military Service must provide documents that provide the following information: Current military rank, career code, ASVAB Scores, security clearance.

APPLICATIONS DETERMINED TO BE INCOMPLETE, INCORRECT OR INSUFFICIENT UPON INITIAL REVIEW WILL NOT RECEIVE FURTHER CONSIDERATION.

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected