Position Title
Pest Controller
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
PEN 25-12797516 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 19, 2025 to Friday, October 3, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Conditions of Employment
1. I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 50 pounds.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I am willing and able to acquire professional job-related certifications with the time frame specified in the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. The employee must submit to an annual physical exam. Are you willing to undergo this yearly requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for an Pest Controller Spray Technician, NA-5026-09 position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. All experience claimed in this assessment must be clearly documented on your resume. Please answer each question to the best of your ability.
1. Please select each answer that reflects the specialized experience you have applying pesticides and working with turf and ornamental plant diseases and pest.
 A. I have no experience
 B. I have less than 1 year of experience
 C. I have 1-3 years of experience
 D. I have more than 3 years of experience
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. Do you possess a State issued Pest Control Applicator license?(Please have certification attached to resume to receive credit)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Please select each answer that represents your experience with working within a golf complex.
 A. I have experience working within an 18 hole golf course complex
 B. I have experience working within a 27 hole golf course complex
 C. I have no experience working within a golf course complex.
4. What is your experience using hand tools to perform operator maintenance on application equipment such as changing nozzles, valves, hoses, adjusting and calibrating pumps and lubrication.
 A. I have less than 1 year of experience
 B. I have 1-3 years of experience
 C. I have more than 3 years of experience
 D. I have no experience
5. What is your experience in operating greens mowers, mowing tractors and a wide variety of golf course maintenance machinery?
 A. I have less than 1 year of experience
 B. I have 1-3 years of experience
 C. I have more than 3 years of experience
 D. I have no experience
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected