Position Title
Fitness Coordinator
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12764074 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 10, 2025 to Thursday, July 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Assessment 1
1. How many years of experience do you have with Navy Fitness programs, i.e., Command Fitness Leader, Group Exercise Instructor?
 A. Three plus years of documented experience with Navy Fitness programs
 B. Less than three years of documented experience with Navy Fitness programs
 C. Three plus years of documented experience with a non-DoD fitness program
 D. Less than three years of documented experience with a non-DoD fitness program
 E. No documented experience with either a non-DoD or Navy fitness program
2. Experience repairing and maintaining fitness equipment
 A. Five plus years of documented experience repairing and maintaining fitness equipment
 B. Three to five years of documented experience repairing and maintaining fitness equipment
 C. One to three years of documented experience repairing and maintaining fitness equipment
 D. Less than one year or no documented experience repairing and maintaining fitness equipment
3. How many years of supervisory experience do you have documented on your resume?
 A. 2 plus years of documented experience supervising employees/staff
 B. One to two years of documented experience supervising employees/staff
 C. Less than one year of documented experience supervising employees/staff
 D. No documented experience supervising employees/staff
4. Do you have an unexpired certificates in Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) and AED and First Aid? If so, these certificates MUST be uploaded with your resume.
 A. Yes, I have an unexpired certificate in CPR/AED and First Aid. (If these certificates are not uploaded I understand that I will not be considered for this position).
 B. No I do not have a CPR/AED and First Aid Certificate
5. Two year degree or higher in General Recreation, Outdoor Recreation, Recreation and Parks Leadership, Youth Recreation, Physical Education or similar field of study OR documented experience that demonstrates the ability to apply the principles of one or more specialty areas of recreation.
 A. I have a degree that meets the requires above and have uploaded a copy of my official transcripts (You will not be considered if the transcripts are not uploaded)
 B. I do not have a degree that meets the requirements above but I do have three plus years of documented experience that demonstrates the ability to apply the principles of one or more specialty areas of recreation
 C. I do not have a degree that meets the requirements above but I do have less than three years of documented experience that demonstrates the ability to apply the principles of one or more specialty areas of recreation.
 D. No documentation of experience or education
6. his position requires the selectee to maintain a valid driver's license.
 A. Yes I have a current driver's license
 B. No I do not have a current driver's license
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected