Position Title
Recreation Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12758022-25-SGP Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, August 5, 2025 to Tuesday, August 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Recreation Therapist position at North Florida/South Georgia VA Medical Center within the VISN 8: VA Sunshine Network. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you qualify for this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s) to the basic requirements for the position of a Recreation Therapist at the GS-7/9/11 grade level(s).
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. English Language Proficiency Requirement: In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), no person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. You must be proficient in basic written and spoken English in order to perform the duties of this position.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Education Requirement: Select the one statement that best describes the education level you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Recreation Therapist.

 A. I am a graduate with a bachelor's degree or higher, from an accredited college or university, with a major in therapeutic recreation or recreation/leisure, with an option and/or emphasis in therapeutic recreation. The degree must be approved by the National Council for Therapeutic Recreation Certification (NCTRC).
 B. I am a graduate with a bachelor's degree or higher in any field from an accredited college or university and must be a certified therapeutic recreation specialist (CTRS). The degree must be approved by the NCTRC. Note: If hired under this education, the certification cannot be waived.
 C. I do not possess the education requirement described above.
3. Certification Requirement: Applicants must be certified in recreation therapy as a Certified Therapeutic Recreation Specialist (CTRS) by the National Council for Therapeutic Recreation Certification (NCTRC). If hired under paragraph 3b(1)(b), certification cannot be waived.

 A. Non-registered and/or non-certified applicants, who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for registration and/or certification, may be given a temporary appointment as a graduate recreation or creative arts therapist, under the authority of 38 U.S.C. 7405(c)(2)(B), for a period not to exceed two years. Applicants who fail to obtain registration and/or certification during this temporary full-time appointment may be terminated. The exception only applies to positions at the GS-7 and GS-9 level. For grade levels at or above the full performance level, the candidate must be registered and/or certified. Do you meet the certification requirement as described above? Or Are you a VA Health Professional trainee pending certification?
 B. Yes, I am certified in recreation therapy as a CTRS by the NCTRC.
 C. No, I do not possess the certification required for this position but qualify per the exception above.
 D. I do not meet the certification requirement to occupy this position.
Basic Requirement for GS-07 Grade Level
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. Basic Requirements: There are no additional requirements beyond meeting the basic requirements to qualify at the GS-07 grade level.

Do you meet the basic requirements for this position?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Basic Requirement for GS-09 Grade Level
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. Experience - In addition to meeting all the basic requirements listed above you must have at least one full year of experience the next lower grade level, or a master's degree in recreation therapy may be substituted for the required one year of professional recreation therapist experience. Examples of experience may include but not limited to: Conducting patient evaluations; analyze and interpret leisure, cognitive, and motor skill assessment data to develop individualized goals, objectives, and treatment plan of care; develop and select interventions to achieve patient goals; review patient progress; adapt or adjust the treatment plan and intervention strategies; implement therapeutic interventions that support measurable functional outcomes (interventions include, but are not limited to leisure education, reality orientation, memory, and gross motor activities); evaluate patient needs for additional, alternative, or termination of services; document patient's behavioral observations, progress, functioning, and intervention outcomes; and provide collaborative services with other team members. This work is completed under general supervision.


Do you possess the experience as described above?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Basic Requirement for GS-11 Grade Level
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
6. Experience - In addition to meeting all the basic requirements listed above you must have at least one full year of experience at the next lower grade level. Examples of experience may include but not limited to: Providing independent judgment to administer and interpret recreation therapy assessments and utilize clinical competencies to develop unconventional assessment and interview approaches to effectively elicit information; Conducting, analyzing, interpreting, and report assessment data based upon functional domains (cognitive, sensory, social, affective, physical, and leisure); Reviewing recreation therapy consults and conduct comprehensive evaluations; Developing individualized treatment plans with therapeutic goals and objectives including scope, duration, and treatment; Recommending adaptation, modification, or assistive technology to meet a patient's assessed needs and preferences in recreation therapy; and Developing strategies to master critical life skills necessary to re-enter the community.

Do you possess the experience as described above?

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Verification Statement: Your rating is subject to verification based on the resume, narratives and other relevant documents you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process are grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information can result in you being fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001) and/or removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 C.F.R. part 731). Any information you give may be investigated and responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in you not being considered for this position.

Do you certify, to the best of your knowledge and belief, that all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith?

 A. Yes. I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
DOCUMENT REMINDER - Failure to submit a complete application packet could cause you to be made ineligible. Remember to submit certificates, transcripts, and anything else required by the vacancy announcement to show that you qualify for this position. Failure to submit your most recent SF-50, certification, transcript(s), etc. will make you ineligible for this position (even facility employees). It is the responsibility of the applicant to submit the appropriate documentation to prove your eligibility and/or qualifications. See the vacancy announcement for specific details on what you need to submit. Please contact Human Resources should you have questions or need assistance with these documents.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected