Position Title
Substitute
Agency
Department of Defense Education Activity
Announcement Number
NC7X-25-12808146-MP-S Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 30, 2025 to Monday, March 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Department of Defense Education Activity Civilian Employee within the Commuting Area


Do you meet one of the categories below?

• CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE COMMUTING AREA. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "1."

• CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA) WITHIN THE COMMUTING AREA. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Department of Defense Education Activity Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "2" AND block 34 must be a "2.").

Supporting documentation: You must submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of Defense Education Activity employee within the communing area in one of the categories described above. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz.

Are you a current Department of Defense Education Activity (DoDEA) civilian employee within the commuting area of the position being filled?

 Yes
 No


3.
Current Excepted Service Department of Defense Education Activity (DoDEA) Employee within the Commuting Area?

Are you a current Department of Defense Education Activity (DoDEA) civilian employee within the commuting area serving in the excepted service?

• You must submit a copy of your most recent SF50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "2".
 Yes
 No


4.
Excepted Service Overseas Family Member Appointment

Do you meet the following? You are eligible for this hiring category if you are a spouse, or unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, and foster child) under the age of 23 who:Resides with a member of the U.S. Armed Forces or a U.S. citizen employee of a U.S. Government Agency (including non-appropriated fund activities) whose duty station is in the foreign area: AND, is in one of the following categories:

Have lost your eligibility for MSP or FMP due to declination or acceptance of a continuing position in the local commuting area; or
Are not eligible under FMP as the family member of a locally hired civilian or NAF employee whose duty station is in a foreign location; or
Are currently occupying an excepted service Schedule A family member appointment with a DoD agency other than the Department of Defense Education Activity; AND,
Position you are applying to, is within the same commuting area as sponsor's permanent duty station.

NOTE: Family members of contractor employees are NOT eligible for an overseas family member appointment.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting:
A copy of your sponsor's permanent change of station orders, including:
- a statement authorizing you (the spouse/family member) to accompany your sponsor to the permanent duty station,
- the specific location to which the sponsor is assigned, reassigned, or transferred to permanent change of station orders, and
- the effective date of the permanent change of station
Verification of the relationship (i.e., marriage certificate, certificate of live birth, etc.)
If your sponsor was locally hired in the overseas area, a statement from the local Human Resources office verifying you are the authorized dependent.
If you are currently employed by the federal government in an excepted service Schedule A family member position in an overseas location, you also need to include a copy of your most recent SF-50 reflecting in block 24 either a "0" or "3" AND block 34 should reflect a "2."

Are you eligible for an Excepted Service Overseas Family Member Appointment?
 Yes
 No


5.
Family Member Preference (FMP) for Overseas Employment

You are eligible for this hiring category if you are a spouse, or unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, and foster child) under the age of 23 who:
Resides with a member of the U.S. Armed Forces or a U.S. citizen employee of a U.S. Government Agency (including non-appropriated fund activities) whose duty station is in the foreign area: AND
Have not accepted or declined a permanent position or a temporary position of one year or longer at the new duty station of the sponsor; AND,
Position you are applying to, is within the same commuting area as sponsor's permanent duty station
**NOTE: This preference does not apply to family members of locally hired civilian employees.

Supporting documentation: Youmust submit:
Acopy of the sponsor's permanent change of station orders, including a statement authorizing the spouse/family member to accompany the sponsor to the permanent duty station, the specific location to which the sponsor is assigned, reassigned, or transferred to permanent change of station orders, and the effective date of the permanent change of station, and
Verification of the relationship (i.e., marriage certificate, certificate of live birth, etc.).

Are you eligible for Family Member Preference for Overseas Employment?
 Yes
 No


6.
Military Spouse Preference (MSP) for Overseas Employment

You are eligible for this hiring category if you are the spouse of an active duty U.S. Armed Forces service member and you meet the following conditions:
 
You and the sponsor were married prior to the relocation (before the Permanent Change of Station (PCS)); AND,
You have arrived at the overseas duty station identified on the PCS orders; AND,
Since the relocation, you have not accepted or declined a permanent position at the new duty station of the sponsor; AND,
You are among the best qualified; AND,
Position you are applying to, is within the same commuting area as sponsor's permanent duty station

**NOTE: Preference can be granted only once per PCS relocation. Once you accept or decline a position, either appropriated fund (AF) or non-appropriated fund (NAF) at the new duty station, your eligibility for preference terminates whether or not preference was applied.

CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE FAMILY MEMBER APPOINTMENT. This category ONLY includes those who are currently assigned to an excepted service Schedule A family member position at an overseas location, and the position applying to is in the same commuting area as sponsor's permanent duty station. If you are eligible in this category, you also need to include a copy of your most recent SF-50 reflecting in block 24 a "3" AND block 34 reflecting a "2."

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of the service member's permanent change of station orders, including a statement authorizing the spouse to accompany the member to the permanent duty station (if the spouse is not listed on the orders, then a command sponsorship letter must be submitted), the specific location to which the member is assigned, reassigned, or transferred to permanent change of station orders, and the effective date of the permanent change of station; AND verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage).

Are you eligible for Military Spouse Preference for Overseas Employment?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Ansbach, Germany
 B. Garmisch, Germany
 C. Grafenwohr, Germany
 D. Hohenfels, Germany
 E. Stuttgart, Germany


2.
Select the school(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Patch Elementary School
 B. Patch Middle School
 C. Robinson Barracks Elementary School
 D. Stuttgart Elementary School
 E. Stuttgart High School
 F. Ansbach Elementary School
 G. Ansbach Middle/High School
 H. Hohenfels Elementary School
 I. Hohenfels Middle/High School
 J. Garmisch Elementary/Middle School
 K. Grafenwoehr Elementary School
 L. Netzaberg Elementary School
 M. Netzaberg Middle School
 N. Vilseck Elementary School
 O. Vilseck High School


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Substitute position with the Department of Defense Education Activity (DoDEA). Your resume, supporting documentation, and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the statement that best describes the education you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Substitute.

 I have a high school diploma or general equivalency degree (GED).
 I do not possess the education described above.


2.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.


Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙