Position Title
SUPERVISORY SECURITIES COMPLIANCE EXAMINER
Agency
Securities and Exchange Commission
Announcement Number
25-IN-12755785-CSS Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 7, 2025 to Monday, July 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Have you served on a Schedule C appointment or as a political appointee anytime within the last 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you currently employed as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service at the same grade level as this position or higher with the same or higher promotion potential?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Promotion, Within Grade Increase (i.e. WGI), or Appointment/Conversion SF-50 or non-award Notification of Personnel Action that shows you are/were in the competitive service and the highest grade or promotion potential held.

Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
your status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
Highest grade or promotion potential held. 
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current SEC employee serving on a permanent or conditional appointment? 

To determine your eligibility, please refer to your last SF-50.  To be eligible, your tenure code must be 1 or 2 AND your status must reflect competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1). 

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 3 location(s).
 A. San Francisco, CA
 B. New York, NY
 C. Philadelphia, PA
 D. Fort Worth, TX
2. From the options below, please indicate the choice that BEST describes your situation:
 A. I am an external candidate and I certify that I have read and understand that should I be selected for the position, the resume and application materials I have submitted will be used to determine salary. I also understand that I will not be permitted to provide an updated resume to OHR after the application period has closed.
 B. I am a current SEC employee and I certify that I have read and understand that should I be selected for this position and it results in a promotion, the standard percentage increase will be applied (i.e., 6% for non-supervisory and 10% for supervisory positions) to determine my salary. I understand that should I be selected for this position and it results in lateral movement (i.e. no change in grade) I will maintain my current salary. I also understand that if I should be selected for this position and it results in a change in grade from an SK-15 to an SK-16, I will maintain my current salary.
3. How did you hear about this position?
--Select-- 
--Select--
American Economic Association (AEA-JOE Network)
Career Fair (Please specify below)
College/University Job Board (e.g., Handshake, Symplicity)
Email from SEC Recruitment Team
Facebook
Friend (non-SEC Employee)
Friend (SEC Employee) (Please specify below)
I am a current SEC Employee or Contractor
Indeed
Job Board (Please specify below)
LinkedIn – Job Post
LinkedIn – Message from SEC Recruiter
SEC Careers Website (www.sec.gov/careers)
SEC Information Session
Social Science Research Network (SSRN)
USAJOBS – Job Search
USAJOBS – Message from SEC Recruiter
USAJOBS – Saved Search Email
X (formerly known as "Twitter")
Other source (e.g., job board, print ad, professional organization, website) (Please specify below)
4. Please specify based on your selection above as applicable:
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Securities Compliance Examiner, SK-1831-15 position in Office of Investment Advisers and Investment Companies (IA/IC) within the Division of Examinations at the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Are you a current, permanent or conditional, competitive service EXAMS employee (Please refer to your 'SF50, block 34' - if your 'SF50 shows 1' then you are in the competitive service)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS/SK-13 level auditing, examining, or investigating principles, techniques, and practices that involve the review and evaluation of procedures, records and practices of broker-dealers, clearing agencies, transfer agents, municipal advisers, investment advisers, investment companies, security-based swap dealers, or self-regulatory organizations?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the SK-13 level auditing, examining, or investigating principles, techniques, and practices that involve the review and evaluation of procedures, records and practices of investment advisers; investment companies; broker-dealers; transfer agents; exchanges; clearing agencies; and/or other registered entities.
 B. I do not have the experience as described above and therefore am ineligible for the position.
3. Please select the response that best describes the experience that demonstrates your ability to perform as a Supervisory Securities Compliance Examiner, SK-1831-15.
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS/SK-13 level preparing reports of findings.
 B. I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS/SK-13 level leading teams of staff with varying backgrounds (e.g., legal, accounting, examining).
 C. I do not have the experience as described above and therefore am ineligible for the position.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. Do you have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS/SK-13 level identifying emerging risks and issues affecting financial institutions, market intermediaries, and participants and producing written reports?
 A. Yes
 B. No
The following questions assess your qualifications. Please select the best answer(s) that describe(s) your experience.
5. From the list below select the statement(s) that describe your experience supervising or leading others (please select all that apply):

 A. I have planned work to be accomplished by employees, set and adjusted short-term priorities, and prepared schedules for completion of work.
 B. I have assigned work to employees based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty and requirements of assignments, and the capabilities of employees.
 C. I have given advice, counsel, or instruction to employees on both work and administrative matters.
 D. I have interviewed candidates for positions in the unit; recommended appointment, promotion, or reassignment to such positions.
 E. I have identified developmental and training needs of employees, providing or arranging for needed development and training.
 F. I have devised ways to improve production or increase the quality of the work directed.
 G. I have not had experience in performing this task.
6. Please select the statement that best demonstrates your experience directing and managing staff engaged in investigating, examining or auditing clearing agencies, exchanges, investment advisers, investment companies, transfer agents, broker-dealers, or other registrants to ensure compliance with federal securities laws
 A. I have fostered and maintained an environment of cooperation and created a high level of team cohesion by empowering examiners, accountants, attorneys, or other staff, sharing relevant information with staff and managers, and seeking to develop and utilize the contributions of all examiners, managers or other staff.
 B. I have led various examinations, investigations, or audits effectively by setting a positive and professional tone for examiner, accountant, or other staff, and motivating them to fulfill goals and objectives.
 C. I have coordinated various types of examination, investigation, or auditing teams and facilitated an efficient and thorough process by communicating with the teams, to provide information needed to complete tasks and adapt to changing conditions
 D. I have not had experience in performing this task.
7. Please select the types of examinations and analyses you have experience conducting (please select all that apply):
 A. Security-based Swap Dealers
 B. Investment Advisers
 C. Municipal Advisers
 D. Investment Companies
 E. Broker Dealers
 F. Portfolio Management and Securities trading
 G. Legal and Regulatory Compliance
 H. Risk Analysis
 I. Valuation of Securities
 J. Transfer Agents
 K. I do not have experience in any of the areas listed above
8. Please select the statement that best demonstrates your experience performing securities examination work to protect the investing public from fraud and misappropriation of funds
 A. A. I have taken a leading role in conducting complex examinations, audits or compliance reviews, such as examining registered broker-dealers; swaps dealers; investment advisers; investment companies; transfer agents; municipal advisers; and/or other registered entities with widely diversified businesses in accordance with established criteria, using a variety of examination techniques that required technical expertise on the part of the examiner, auditor or compliance staff.
 B. I have prepared a detailed examination, audit or compliance plan encompassing the full range of risk scoping involving on-site compliance examinations, audits or reviews.
 C. I have participated in examinations, audits or compliance reviews of registered broker-dealers; investment advisers; investment companies; transfer agents; municipal advisers; and/or other registered entities in accordance using a variety of examination techniques.
 D. I have not had experience in performing this task.
9. Please select the statement that best demonstrates your experience communicating technical matters to officials, managers, and/or organizational leadership
 A. I have communicated with individuals, such as directors, leaders, and representatives from organizations involving technical matters. I have provided agency positions on program issues and policies.
 B. I have communicated deficiencies, findings, advice or other information of a technical nature to organizational leadership in a regulatory, auditor or otherwise supervisory role.
 C. I have consulted on programs with others from functionally similar or complementary organizations. I have provided positions/recommendations on technical matters and policies.
 D. I have not had experience in performing this task.
10. Please select the statement that best describes your experience presenting financial and/or examination information.
 A. I have represented my organization at meetings and conferences where I discussed the organization’s view-points on complex issues
 B. I have provided a high-level explanation of examination processes and procedures to other federal agencies and external organizations within the securities industry. The explanations covered a variety of steps or phases and the processes or procedures described were of high complexity.
 C. I have presented analytical research findings and defended recommendations to supervisor and staff members.
 D. I have not had experience in performing this task.
11. Please select the statement that best demonstrates your experience conveying information in written form.

 A. I have compiled specialized written communication that was derived from a variety of sources, using specialized data from multiple sources and applying, and requiring extensive analysis of records and data and the use of advanced analytical techniques to identify solutions to complex problems of a technical financial nature.
 B. I have prepared reports using specialized data from several sources that required extensive analysis of records and data. I have completed technical reports.
 C. I have analyzed/compiled specialized numerical and/or statistical data from a few clear-cut sources and prepared reports according to prescribed guidelines.
 D. I have not had experience in performing this task.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected