Position Title
Mission Support Specialist
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12795102-CAIS-IMP-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 10, 2025 to Friday, September 19, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current USCIS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. The Reemployment Priority List (RPL) is the mechanism DHS uses to give reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees separated by reduction-in-force (RIF), or fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a former USCIS employee?  If so, have you met all of the following criteria?
Registered for the RPL program, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupied a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current/most recent performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent, and
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606
For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, visit 5 CFR 330 Subpart B.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
My SF-50 showing Separation - RIF. If that is not available yet, then official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who is in a permanent position that is in the competitive service (see block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type)?

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of our SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
11
12
13
2. I acknowledge the following conditions if I choose to submit my resume through the USAJOBS Resume Builder:
I understand that resumes submitted through USAJOBS Resume Builder are converted to a PDF format when they are transmitted to USA Staffing from the USAJOBS applicant interface and additional spaces/page gaps are added to resumes during the Resume Builder conversion process;
Based on the above conditions, I understand that USCIS strongly encourages me to save my resume to a PDF document and upload the PDF document instead of submitting my resume created through Resume Builder;
I understand that USCIS' human resources will only review the first 2 pages of my resume to determine eligibility/qualifications for this position;
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I have met this requirement for consideration.

(Note: Additional guidance regarding this requirement is available within the How to Submit Your Resume section of the USCIS Resume Requirement FAQs.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 D. No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.
4. Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) from the Federal Government within the last 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5.

This job is being posted for individuals who reside within the local commuting area* of the announced duty location on a permanent basis. All candidates must meet this requirement, with the exception of Refugee, Asylum and International Operations (RAIO) overseas employees approved for rotation OR unless on an approved exemption OR at an approved USCIS location. In these cases you can apply for any location.

Do you reside within the local commuting area* of the announced duty location on a permanent basis OR are a RAIO overseas employee approved for rotation OR on an approved exemption** OR at an approved USCIS location***?

*Local commuting area is defined as a distance that you can reasonably travel back and forth daily to the announced duty location from your permanent residence.

**An approved exemption is: military spouses, approved RA, or temporary long distance remote status (documentation required).

***An approved USCIS location is defined as pre authorized space designated for use by the program, office or directorate.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

The address listed on your USA Jobs profile or resume must show that you reside within the local commuting area of the announced duty location.
If on an approved exemption you must provide the most recent approval.
If at an approved USCIS location you must provide the original reporting instructions.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. If your status changes, requiring you to report to a physical location you may be directed to report to one of the duty locations listed in the original job opportunity announcement without relocation expenses.
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I understand this requirement.
By answering NO to this question, I am asking to be removed from further consideration for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a current USCIS employee who opted to take part of the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) and are currently in an Administrative Leave category?
 A. Yes.
 B. No.
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. GS-11 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience and/or education?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or at least three (3) full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M. in a field related to the work of this position as described in the vacancy announcement.
 C. I possess a combination of specialized experience and graduate education beyond the first two (2) years of graduate study that together meet the requirements for this position.
 D. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.
2. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
3. GS-12 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
4. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
5. GS-13 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
6. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
7. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-11. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-09 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-09 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-09 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-11 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., VRA, Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
8. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-12. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
9. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-13. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
The following section contains a multitude of question types. If you see a radio button, you can only select one response. If you see a checkbox, you may select all that apply.
10. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience creating correspondence (e.g., customer notifications, response to inquiries)?
 A. I created correspondence following guidance (e.g., template, explicit directions from a superior).
 B. I created correspondence without guidance that was reviewed and approved before dissemination.
 C. I independently created correspondence that did not require higher-level review or approval.
 D. I trained others in proper creation of correspondence.
 E. I completed education and/or training related to creating correspondence, but do not have professional experience.
 F. I have no experience, training, or education creating correspondence.
11. Select the audiences for whom you have prepared customer feedback presentations (e.g., briefings).
 A. Colleagues
 B. Team leads/Program Managers
 C. First-line Supervisors
 D. Senior-level officials
 E. External partners
 F. None of the above
12. Which statement best describes your ability to adapt to changing work assignments?
 A. I perform my best having consistent work assignments
 B. I perform my best having a variety of work assignments.
 C. I perform my best having mostly consistent work assignments and some variety.
 D. I find it hard to remain focused when doing the same assignment over and over.
13. I have independently planned projects that resulted in organizational-wide improvements.
 A. True
 B. False
14. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience developing program policies for implementation?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education developing policies.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to developing policies, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I provided input to supervisors or subject matter experts on the development of new policies.
 D. I drafted policy proposals for the application of policy to a specific program.
 E. I independently developed and implemented new policies that directly impacted programs.
15. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience responding to an issue or situation in which the resolution was not obvious?
 A. I gathered basic information about the situation and took the issue to a supervisor for help.
 B. I researched the situation to develop alternatives within guidelines and collaborated with a supervisor to resolve it.
 C. I developed a recommended solution based on my research of the situation and guidelines and sought confirmation/approval from my supervisor before proceeding.
 D. I researched and resolved the issue independently, then briefed my team or supervisor on the action taken.
 E. None of the above.
16. Which actions have you completed to implement strategic initiatives (e.g. enterprise-wide hiring reform, improving operating processes, developmental programs)?
 A. Participated in the implementation of a strategic initiative with organization-wide implications.
 B. Led a working group focused on implementation of an organization-wide strategic initiative.
 C. Developed a course of action (e.g., road map, project plan) for a strategic initiative.
 D. Identified risks or barriers to successful achievement for a strategic initiative.
 E. Reported on the progress of a strategic achievement to leadership (e.g., formal briefings, progress reports).
 F. Revised a course of action to meet a strategic goal.
 G. None of the above.
17. Which statement best describes your highest level of making sound, well-informed recommendations?
 A. I asked for guidance from others (peers, supervisors, trainers).
 B. I referenced established training documents and operating procedures to solve work problems.
 C. I collaborated with peers to make sound, well-informed decisions.
 D. I trained others on techniques to assist in making well-informed recommendations.
18. Select the ways in which you develop and maintain collaborative working relationships with others to resolve conflicts in a positive manner.
 A. Find commonality to all sides as a starting point for shared outcome.
 B. Actively listen and brainstorm together.
 C. Be respectful to differing opinions.
 D. Recognize the barriers to the common goal.
 E. Identify solutions all sides can agree to.
 F. None of the above.
19. Which statement describes your experience preparing reports and overviews for supervisors?
 A. I use the functions of a spreadsheet to develop reports based upon a business need or requirement.
 B. I enter information into spreadsheets or databases that is used to create recurring data reports for management.
 C. I assisted senior staff by collating and compiling data from multiple sources and produce reports that are disseminated throughout the organization.
 D. I review information contained within a spreadsheet or database to verify its accuracy or conformance with agency/organizational standards.
 E. None of the above.
20. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers?
 A. I have not had education and/or training in developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents.
 B. I have had education and/or training in developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers.
 C. I have developed and formatted written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers under close supervision to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have independently developed and formatted written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers.
 E. I have supervised others in, or been regularly consulted as an expert in, developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers.
21. Select the areas in which you have reviewed work for accuracy
 A. I have provided accurate and consistent feedback on work products.
 B. I have provided information timely and in a clear format for others to act on.
 C. I have reviewed and verified the accuracy of information and work products.
 D. I have independently monitored work details and the quality of my own work according to established policies, procedures, and guidelines.
 E. I have not reviewed work for accuracy.
22. Select the choice that best describes your experience in planning and organizing work.
 A. I have created strategies to make quality decisions regarding planning and organizing my work.
 B. I consistently support others within the organization to develop best practices concerning planning and organizing tasks to meet deadlines.
 C. I have coordinated with others to set schedules, goals and priorities for projects spanning work units within the organization.
 D. I do not meet any of the options provided.
23. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience in solving complex problems in the workplace.
 A. I have solved difficult problems in the workplace by surrounding myself with others who are strong in problem solving and learning from them.
 B. I am positive in my approach and reframe the problem or issue to come up with new solutions.
 C. I have solved complex problems in the workplace by focusing on details, thinking analytically, and offering practical solutions that evaluate the potential costs, resources, and barriers to a successful solution.
 D. I have identified problems in the workplace but have no experience solving complex problems in the workplace.
24. I have evaluated information (e.g. data, reports) to identify process improvements adopted across an organization.
 A. True
 B. False
25. Which statement best describes your role in aligning work with organizational goals and objectives?
 A. I have worked within a team to achieve organizational goals and objectives.
 B. I have led a team to achieve organizational goals and objectives.
 C. I have supervised a team to achieve organizational goals and objectives.
 D. None of the above
26. Which administrative/clerical activities have you performed to support a program?
 A. I provided customer support for the program.
 B. I conducted courier services.
 C. I processed documents and fees.
 D. I managed data in information systems or databases.
 E. I prescreened applications for accuracy and completeness.
 F. I initiated security checks/background checks.
 G. I conducted file searches to check for instances of fraud or suspected fraud.
 H. I created physical and electronic case files
 I. I performed case file audits.
 J. None of the above.
27. Select the work products you have authored.
 A. Executive Briefings
 B. Correspondence or memoranda
 C. Project status reports
 D. Standard Operating Procedures
 E. Training manuals
 F. Policy guidance
 G. Budget proposals
 H. Performance measures
 I. None of the above
28. What types of research methods have you used to conduct research or program evaluations? (Select all that apply)
 A. Direct Observation
 B. Surveys
 C. Interviews
 D. Focus Groups
 E. Secondary Data Analysis
 F. Mixed Methods
 G. None of the above
29. Which administrative/clerical activities have you performed related to project/program management?
 A. I assisted with the implementation of special projects.
 B. I set up controls and records to assist in presenting statistical information on special programs.
 C. I advised superiors on correspondence management.
 D. I finalized official correspondence to ensure accuracy of content, spelling, format, and grammar.
 E. I monitored the progress of special projects/programs and informed key staff of potential impediments.
 F. None of the above.
30. Select the Human Resources functions you have performed to provide administrative support to customers (e.g., managers, administrative officers, selecting officials, applicants, employees, union officials).
 A. Recruitment and staffing (e.g., position classification, position management)
 B. Full Time Equivalent (FTE)/Individual Position Number (IPN) Utilization
 C. Personnel actions processing
 D. Adverse Actions
 E. Training on human resources topics
 F. None of the above
31. Select the human resources functions you have performed independently.
 A. Created personnel actions
 B. Approved personnel actions
 C. Reviewed current staffing levels and predicted future needs
 D. Formulated budgets
 E. Attended job fairs to source candidates
 F. Reviewed budget to determine if cuts needed to be made
 G. Reviewed candidate applications and made selection recommendations
 H. Interviewed potential candidates and made selection recommendations
 I. Determined the number of personnel needed to cover current workload
 J. Reviewed announcement drafts
 K. None of the above
32. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience utilizing laws, rules, regulations, policies, and procedures pertaining to Human Resource programs?
 A. I have completed my daily assignments in accordance with the appropriate Human Resource law, regulation, and/or policy.
 B. I have resolved Human Resource issues independently, using guidelines or procedures that required considerable interpretation and/or adaptation.
 C. I have reviewed the work of others to ensure they are following applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
 D. I have referred non-routine Human Resource questions to higher-level personnel for guidance.
 E. I have no experience, training, or education utilizing Human Resource laws, rules, regulations, policies, or procedures affecting Human Resource program areas
33. I have reviewed the implementation of a project or program (e.g., application of new law or procedure) and reported outcomes of my review (e.g., production, quality, service to the public) to senior leaders.
 A. True
 B. False
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
34. Have you updated existing policies and procedures for a program or office based on new or changing legislation, regulations, and policies?
 A. Yes
 B. No
35. Do you have experience responding to email inquiries that required explaining procedures?
 A. Yes
 B. No
36. Do you have experience in the application of analytical and/or evaluative methods to assess program issues?
 A. I have applied analytical and evaluative methods to assess efficiency and effectiveness in program operations and I’ve used this information to present findings to the financial management team.
 B. I have evaluated program operations and administrative support functions using analytical and evaluative methods to support organizational structures.
 C. I have applied basic analytical and evaluative methods and techniques to assess program issues and conduct studies.
 D. I do not meet any of the options provided.
37. When guidance is ambiguous or not straight forward, which course of action do you take?
 A. Ask my peer or supervisor for assistance.
 B. Research all available guidance and make an independent, logical decision.
 C. Stop working on the assignment to allow time to think about it more.
 D. Take my best guess and move on to the next assignment.
38. Which types of software have you independently used to organize information?
 A. Word Processing (e.g., Microsoft Word)
 B. Email (e.g., Outlook)
 C. Spreadsheets (e.g., Excel)
 D. Databases (e.g., Access)
 E. Graphics/Presentation Tools (e.g., Power Point)
 F. Project Management Tools (e.g., Microsoft Project)
 G. Collaboration Tools (e.g., SharePoint, Google Docs)
 H. None of the above
39. Please indicate which of the following items you have researched and analyzed in order to develop final products.
 A. Laws
 B. Regulations
 C. Policies
 D. Program documents and/or standard operating procedures
 E. Processes
 F. Statistical data
 G. Technical data
 H. Professional journals
 I. None of the above
40. Choose the statement that best describes your experience organizing or managing projects to meet deadlines.
 A. I have created strategies to make high quality decisions regarding organizing or managing projects to meet deadlines.
 B. My work has allowed engagement in defining criteria to direct others in developing platforms for decisions while organizing or managing projects to meet deadlines.
 C. I consistently support others within the organization to develop techniques to serve as precedents and future best practices in organizing or managing projects to meet deadlines.
 D. I do not meet any of the options provided.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
41. Do you have experience translating raw data into reports that informed decisions made at organizational level?
 A. Yes
 B. No
42. Which statement describes your experience preparing data and reports?
 A. I assisted senior staff by compiling data for their use in preparing reports for organizational-wide dissemination.
 B. I reviewed data reports for conformance with agency/organizational standards.
 C. I updated spreadsheet or database files used for budgeting.
 D. I analyzed data in database software (e.g., Microsoft Access) to verify its accuracy.
 E. I developed a process or system to create recurring data reports for management.
 F. None of the above.
43. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience developing action plans to achieve goals?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to developing action plans to achieve goals.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to developing action plans to achieve goals, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I reviewed office goals for alignment with the organizational mission.
 D. I created action plans to implement and meet goals across program areas.
 E. I participated in developing action items to support establishing goals for a specific program area.
 F. I led others in the development of actions items to support specific goals in a program areas.
44. If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "pass," "satisfactory," or better?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. I am a Federal employee but have not received a performance rating.
 D. Not applicable. I am not a Federal employee.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
45. Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected