Position Title
Emergency Management Specialist (Response)
Agency
Federal Emergency Management Agency
Announcement Number
KW-12794116-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 5, 2025 to Tuesday, September 9, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. The following questions will be used to determine your eligibility for consideration under this job opportunity announcement. Please select YES to all eligibility question(s) which apply.

If you're uncertain you meet an eligibility, we suggest answering yes. Your application will only be considered under the applicable eligibilities you have selected. If you respond NO to all eligibility questions below, your application will not be considered under this announcement.

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration for EACH selected eligibility. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will not be considered.
1. Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)

Are you a current or former FEMA Stafford Act employee eligible under the Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)?

Current and former FEMA Stafford Act employees who can document 64 or more hours of paid time, per pay period, with no breaks in service* for 78 or more consecutive pay periods since August 1, 2014, are eligible to be considered for this Merit Promotion Job Opportunity Announcement. (*Note: A "break in service" is defined as 3 or more days in non-pay status, except as allowed under 5 CFR § 315.201(b)(3)(ii) for special circumstances such as military deployment, etc.).

To verify eligibility, you must submit: 
"Notice of DRRA Eligibility" provided by OCHCO.  If you believe you're eligible, but have not received your notice, please reach out to the HR Specialist listed in the announcement.
Your FEMA SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your appointment in the excepted service under the Stafford Act.  We recommend attaching a SF-50 which indicates your highest grade and step.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Current FEMA Employee

Are you a current FEMA employee who currently holds OR has previously held a permanent (not time limited) position in the competitive service?

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your permanent competitive status.  Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions.  You may need to submit more than one SF-50.  Your SF-50 must reflect:
Block 24 - Tenure:  1 - Permanent (career) or 2 - Conditional: AND
Block 34 - Position Occupied:  1 - Competitive Service
If you previously held a career or career conditional appointment, you must provide your current SF-50 and your SF-50 which shows competitive status eligibility.
Please do not submit an award SF-50, as it might not indicate your grade level and step.  
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. FEMA Employees Only Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)
Are you a current or former FEMA employee who is considered displaced or surplus (you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction in Force)?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, your most recent performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. How did you hear about this Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) job opportunity?
 A. USAJOBS
 B. FEMA's Social Media (Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Online Job board (Indeed, Zip Recruiter, etc.)
 D. FEMA.gov Careers Website
 E. FEMA Virtual Hiring Event
 F. FEMA On-Site Hiring Event
 G. College/University/Alumni Organization
 H. FEMA Employee Referral
 I. Other
2. Are you a retiree receiving a federal annuity (either military or civilian)? Or have you accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years? (Select all that apply.)
 A. Yes, I'm receiving a military annuity.
 B. Yes, I'm receiving a civilian annuity.
 C. Yes, I've received a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
 D. No, I am not receiving a federal annuity and have not accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
3. Are you a current FEMA employee?
 A. I'm a current FEMA Local Hire Employee
 B. I'm a current FEMA Reservist Employee
 C. I'm a current FEMA CORE Employee
 D. I'm a current FEMA PFT Employee
 E. I'm a current FEMA Senior Executive Service Employee
 F. I'm not a current FEMA Employee
4. Are you currently serving, or have served within the last five years, as a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) employee in the Executive Branch?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Please provide the following information regarding your political appointment(s): 1. Official Title of Position; 2. Type of Appointment (i.e. Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career SES); 3. Name of Agency; 4. Date Position began; and 5. Date Position ended. (NOTE: If you have never held a political appointment, please enter N/A.)
6. Within the past five years, have you received a buyout or payment through the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment Authority (VSIP) when separating from a federal position?
 A. No
 B. Yes, and I understand candidates who are reemployed with the federal government within five years after receiving a buyout or payment under VSIP are required to repay the entire amount of the incentive prior to their onboarding date.
7. Did you elect to voluntarily resign or retire through the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) or Workforce Transition Program (WTP)
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?

Select "Not Applicable" if this question does not apply to you.
 A. Yes
 B. No, but I have an exemption
 C. I am a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, and have NOT registered with the Selective Service System and do NOT have an exemption.
 D. Not Applicable
2. All FEMA employees are subject to 24-hour on-call in the event of an emergency and all Federal employees may be subject to emergency deployment. In the event of an emergency deployment, travel requirements may be extensive in nature (weeks to months), with little advance notice, and may require relocation to emergency sites, some of which are quite austere. The length of deployment may last anywhere from days to months, depending upon the nature of the emergency or disaster.

Every FEMA employee is considered an emergency manager and each employee has regular and recurring emergency management responsibilities, although not every position requires routine deployment to disaster sites. Your emergency management duties may vary depending on the needs of the Agency, your particular skills, and certain personal circumstances. All positions may require irregular work hours, work at locations other than the official duty station, and may include duties other than those specified in the employee's official position description.

Are you able to meet this commitment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

In order to be hired for this position, applicants must undergo and successfully pass a background investigation. This may include a review of financial issues, such as delinquency, child support and/or tax obligations, as well as certain criminal offenses and illegal use of or possession of drugs.

Are you willing to undergo a background investigation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. In order to be hired for this position, applicants must undergo and successfully pass a Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) investigation. This may include a review of financial issues, such as delinquency, child support and/or tax obligations, as well as certain criminal offenses and illegal use of or possession of drugs.

Are you willing to undergo a background investigation?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Your responses to the questions below will be used in the evaluation of your qualifications for this position. Your resume and application materials must support the level of experience and/or education you claim in this questionnaire, If, after a complete review of your application package, a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications, you may be rated ineligible for this position.
1. Grade 13: Do you have one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the GS-12 level, as described in the vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Please indicate where and when you obtained each of the specialized experience requirements listed in the Qualifications section of this Job Opportunity Announcement. Include in your response: (1) the area of specialized experience; (2) the place of employment; and, (3) the specific dates of employment the experience was gained in MM/DD/YYYY - MM/DD/YYYY format. Your response must be supported by your resume.

Example: Experience in developing and delivering presentations and training; ABC Company; 10/01/2016 - 05/15/2018. (limit 300 characters)
3. Select all answer(s) that best describes your experience analyzing information. Select all that apply:
 A. Used qualitative data and analytical tools.
 B. Developed policies and procedures for the purpose of meeting the organization's objectives.
 C. Independently interpreted and applied statues and regulations to resolve issues.
 D. Prepared and presented analytical information to senior management.
 E. Produced data to be used in reports, briefings or meetings of senior management officials.
 F. My analysis skills have been formally recognized by my manager or organization as successful, e.g., through performance appraisal and/or awards.
 G. None of the above.
4. From the list below, please select the task(s) you have performed. (Select all that apply.)
 A. Met with senior managers or officials to present status updates.
 B. Participated in implementing administrative policy changes.
 C. Modified processes in response to changing policies and/or management evaluations.
 D. Interpreted administrative guidance contained in legislation, regulations, and/or policy directives.
 E. Provided technical advice regarding administrative management trends.
 F. None of the above
5. Do you have experience implementing the principles of the National Response Framework and/or the National Incident Management System Incident Command System?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Do you have experience applying project management/facilitation skills?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. From the list below, select the statement that best describes your experience using standard presentation software (e.g., Microsoft PowerPoint) to draft, review and revise presentations and/or other documents.
 A. I have performed this task/competency, either in training or on the job under close supervision.
 B. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review.
 C. I have extensive experience in this task/competency and am regularly asked to provide assistance, training, or technical guidance on this task/competency.
 D. I have no education, training, or experience with this task/competency.
8. Do you have at least one year of experience developing and delivering recommendations to senior leadership on organizational or program improvement needs?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Please select the statements which best describe your experience utilizing communication skills as part of your job. (Select all that apply)
 A. I do not have experience performing this task.
 B. I have verbally communicated with individuals to exchange factual information and build relationships
 C. I have verbally communicated with individuals at various levels of authority within and outside of my work environment to exchange and clarify factual information, explain complex information, and resolve problems that require in-depth knowledge of the activities of an organization.
 D. I have given verbal presentations to groups both internal, and external to my organization
 E. I have provided accurate and factual written responses to various levels of communication for my organization.
10. Choose the statement(s) that describe the communication/briefing skills that you use as a regular part of your job to support agency goals and agency leadership.
 A. Regularly communicate organization strategies, goals, objectives and priorities in oral and/or written formats.
 B. Explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations.
 C. Demonstrate ability to foster cooperation and consensus among groups in fostering agency goals.
 D. Demonstrate ability to build consensus through collaboration with others to obtain information, achieve results and accomplish goals.
 E. Communicate and interact with other organizational functions.
 F. Communicate project objectives, goals, and status with immediate supervisor.
 G. I have not performed any of the above tasks.
11. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience supporting customers.
 A. I have answered questions regarding standard procedures.
 B. I have verified documented customer requirements.
 C. I have identified customer requirements.
 D. I have identified possible technical challenges.
 E. I have discussed approaches to address customer service requirements.
 F. I have enforced compliance with policies or procedures.
 G. I have provided feedback on customer documentation.
 H. I have referred difficult or uncooperative customers to a supervisor or manager.
 I. I have responded to difficult or uncooperative customers (or had difficult or uncooperative customers referred to me).
 J. None of the above.
12. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience representing your organization in briefings, meetings, or conferences.
 A. I have attended inter-organization or inter-agency committee meetings with a senior official.
 B. I have been involved in representing an organization at briefings, meetings, or conferences with other interested parties (e.g., peers, colleagues, members of professional organizations) to share information.
 C. I have assisted in representing an organization at seminars or workshops.
 D. I have served as a member on an internal organization or agency advisory group.
 E. I have I have been involved in delivering technical information or assistance at external conferences, seminars, and/or workshops.
 F. None of the above.
13. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience building relationships to represent your organization.
 A. I have communicated with individuals from other organizations to build networks.
 B. I have coordinated with individuals from other organizations to conduct events.
 C. I have coordinated with personnel from other organizations to discuss shared goals and/or promote collaborative work processes.
 D. None of the above.
14. Do you have experience coordinating internal or external planning efforts that require developing consensus among partners having overlapping authorities and jurisdictions for response?
 A. Yes
 B. No
15. Select the response(s) that describe your experience developing collaborative relationships.
 A. I have experience developing and sustaining cooperative working relationships within the organization and with customer groups.
 B. I have experience influencing and persuading others.
 C. I have experience building consensus through collaboration, gaining followers and cooperation from others to obtain information, achieve results, and accomplish goals.
 D. I have experience fostering cooperation and consensus among groups.
 E. I have experience fostering shared leadership, building trust among team members, and creating commitment to team goals.
 F. None of the above
16. Do you have at least one year of experience providing guidance and oversight to a multi-disciplinary team?
 A. Yes
 B. No
17. Please take this opportunity to review your question responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you understand this statement, have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected