Position Title
SUPERVISORY LIBRARY TECHNICIAN
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12816535 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 16, 2025 to Thursday, November 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have the relevant education and/or training that satisfies the requirements for this position?

 Yes, I have a Bachelor's degree in Library Science or a related field
 Yes, I have at least 2 years of applied public, academic, or government library experience
 No, I do not have the required experience and /or related education


2.
Select the response that would best describe your experience with Library Cataloging and Circulation Software?

 I have extensive knowledge of library circulation and cataloging software. I have used this tool in both a front line and technical services operations.
 I have extensive knowledge of library circulation and cataloging software in a technical services capacity.
 I have worked with library circulation and cataloging software in a customer service capacity.
 I have no experience with library circulation and cataloging software in any capacity.


3.
Do you have experience with proposing, planning, promoting and executing and evaluating recreation/leisure skill programs?

 I have no experience with proposing, planning and executing recreation programs
 Yes, I have assisted with the proposing, planning and executing of recreation programs
 Yes, I have proposed, planned, promoted and executed and evaluated recreation/leisure skill programs independently
 Yes, I have proposed, planned, promoted, executed and evaluated recreation/leisure skill programs in a library setting


4.
Have you used Microsoft Applications to complete administrative duties? (examples include creation and maintaining organized reports, collect data and analyze information?

 I have documented experience that demonstrates my ability to create and maintain organized reports, collect data and analyze information
 I am familiar with Microsoft Applications and have used these tools on the job
 I have no experience with admin/data collection using Microsoft Applications


5.
Are you able to communicate effectively to large audiences?

 I have limited experience speaking in front of large groups of professionals
 I have experience speaking in front of large groups of people
 I have strong public speaking skills and have utilized these skills on the job


6.
Do you have supervisory/leadership experience? (examples include mentoring, assigning work, defining priorities, selecting and recommending applicants for hire, leading training, initiating corrective/disciplinary action, etc)

 I have no prior supervisory/leadership experience
 I have limited experience with supervisory/leadership experience- one year or less
 I have experience supervising and leading people- more than one year
 I am very experienced supervising and leading people- more than three years


7.
Do you have experience performing analysis of operating budgets, project and program plans, population trends and needs assessments?

 I have no prior experience with analysis of operating budgets, evaluation of projects and program plans, and assessing population trends and needs
 I have limited experience with analysis of operation budgets, evaluation of projects and program plans, and assessing population trends and needs? (Less than one year)
 I have experience with analysis of operating budgets, evaluation of projects and program plans, assessing population trends and needs? (one to two years)
 I am very experienced with analysis of operating budgets, evaluation of project and program plans, and assessing population trends and needs? (more than two years)


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙