Position Title
Customer Service Clerk
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
NSAPC-25-12790376 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 2, 2025 to Tuesday, September 16, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. Do you reside within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position?

The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 A. Yes, I reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
 B. No, I do not reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
2. I am willing and able to wear a prescribed uniform while performing duties of this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I am willing and able to work an Flexible work schedule. This schedule describes work performed without a regularly scheduled tour of duty; hours are from 0-40 hours per week.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. If you currently do not reside within the commuting area of Naval Support Activity, Panama City, Florida, are you a military spouse submitting proper documentation claiming Military Spouse Preference?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with us. We will evaluate your resume and responses to the assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.
1. How many years of experience do you possess in operating a Point of Sales systems, cashiering and cash handling, and the use of adding machines?
 A. I have three (3) or more years of experience as described above.
 B. I have between two (2) to three (3) years' experience as described above.
 C. I have between one (1) to two (2) years of experience as described above.
 D. I have less than one (1) year experience as described above.
 E. I have no experience as described above.
2. How many years of experience do you have in customer service?
 A. I have three (3) or more years of experience in Customer Service.
 B. I have between two (2) and three (3) years of experience in Customer Service.
 C. I have between one (1) and two (2) years of experience in Customer Service.
 D. I have less than one (1) year of experience in Customer Service.
 E. I do not have any experience in Customer Service.
3. How many years of experience do you have working in a marina equipment rental or a hospitality rental shop environment?
 A. I have three (3) or more years of experience working in a marina equipment rental or a hospitality rental shop environment.
 B. I have between two (2) to three (3) years experience working in a marina equipment rental or a hospitality rental shop environment.
 C. I have between one (1) and two (2) years of experience working in a marina equipment rental or a hospitality rental shop environment.
 D. I have less than one (1) year experience working in a marina equipment rental or a hospitality rental shop environment.
 E. I have no experience working in a marina equipment rental or a hospitality rental shop environment.
4. How many years of experience do you have performing clerical duties: such as completing forms, maintaining records and maintaining a filing system?
 A. I have three (3) or more years of experience as described above.
 B. I have between two (2) and three (3) years experience as described above.
 C. I have between one (1) and two (2) years of experience as described above.
 D. I have less than one (1) year experience as described above.
 E. I have no experience as described above.
5. How many years of experience do you have in understanding MWR policies, orders, and regulations?
 A. I have three (3) or more years of experience in understanding MWR policies, orders, and regulations.
 B. I have between two (2) and three (3) years of experience in understanding MWR policies, orders, and regulations.
 C. I have between one (1) and two (2) years of experience in understanding MWR policies, orders, and regulations.
 D. I have less than one (1) year of experience in understanding MWR policies, orders, and regulations.
 E. I have no experience in understanding MWR policies, orders, and regulations.
6. How many years of experience do you have in a sales environment where technical knowledge of services and merchandise availability was a prominent part of daily responsibility?
 A. I have three (3) or more years of experience in a sales environment where technical knowledge of services and merchandise availability was a prominent part of daily responsibility.
 B. I have between two (2) and three (3) years of experience in a sales environment where technical knowledge of services and merchandise availability was a prominent part of daily responsibility.
 C. I have between one (1) and two (2) years of experience in a sales environment where technical knowledge of services and merchandise availability was a prominent part of daily responsibility.
 D. I have less than one (1) year experience in a sales environment where technical knowledge of services and merchandise availability was a prominent part of daily responsibility.
 E. I have no experience in a sales environment where technical knowledge of services and merchandise availability was a prominent part of daily responsibility.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected