Position Title
COOK
Agency
Air Force Global Strike Command
Announcement Number
25-4XFSW0006014 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 9, 2025 to Monday, October 20, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and one every three years thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 Yes.
 No.


3.
This position requires shift work to provide coverage on evenings, weekends, holidays, or special situations. Are you willing and able to work an assigned shift to meet work requirements?
 Yes
 No


Thank you for your interest in employment with the Department of Air Force Nonappropriated Funds. Please take a moment to answer the below assessment questions. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


4.
To be considered for this position, the applicant must be a U.S. Citizen or a Legal U.S. Resident for a minimum of 3 years and must reside in/around the area as noted in the Job Opportunity Announcement. Do you meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


5.
Do you have experience in and knowledge of methods and procedures relating to food preparation and presentation gained in a grill, snack bar, restaurant, club or similar food activity? Knowledge of operating and cleaning food service equipment, characteristics of various foods, and the ability to season food and decide when foods are done is required?



 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙