Position Title
Management and Program Analyst
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
25-DO-12754616 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, June 27, 2025 to Monday, July 7, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current Treasury Department employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current Treasury employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current Treasury employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current Department of Treasury employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Kansas City, MO
 C. Brookhaven, NY
 D. Philadelphia, PA
 E. Memphis, TN
 F. Austin, TX
 G. Ogden, UT
 H. Parkersburg, WV
2. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other
4. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
5. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
7. Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.
8. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Which of the following describes your eligibility for this announcement?
 A. I am a current permanent Department of Treasury employee with competitive status.
 B. I am a Department of Treasury employee serving on a Veterans' Recruitment Appointment (VRA).
 C. I am an individual eligible for the Department of Treasury Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP).
 D. I do not meet any of the above criteria.
Assessment 1
Specialized experience: For the GS-14, you must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes:

- Experience serving as a Human Capital Program Analyst or Program Manager; AND
- Experience researching, analyzing and monitoring HR program data/information to create reports and make recommendations for process improvement.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you have at least one year (52 full weeks) of the above stated specialized experience at or equivalent to the GS-13 level?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Please state where in your resume you obtained the specialized experience. The experience should be clearly documented. Include position title(s), dates worked, and employer(s) to ensure you receive proper credit. (limit 250 characters)
3. Please select those responses that describe your experience interacting with a variety of people to achieve effective solutions. Select all that apply.
 A. I have served as a spokesperson for an agency or bureau.
 B. I have facilitated communications and activities between organizational entities.
 C. I have presented, defended, and negotiated specific goals, needs, or problems with senior management.
 D. I have independently planned and conducted meetings.
 E. I have served on focus groups, committees, or project teams.
 F. I provided guidance and advice to peers and other agency personnel.
 G. I have acted as a technical representative to management, customer organizations, or third-party entities regarding operational or business matters.
 H. None of the above.
4. What is your experience communicating with peers and management at all levels? Select all that apply.
 A. I have effectively presented ideas and options to managers, employees and the general public.
 B. I have sold controversial changes and/or solutions to upper-level management.
 C. I have analyzed proposed regulatory/policy changes and prepared written recommendations.
 D. I have contributed to agency-level policies or procedures.
 E. I have been able to maintain relationships with customers who have differing needs. I have assessed their needs and identified and tailored services to meet their needs.
 F. I have demonstrated effective interpersonal skills with individuals in situations that were tense, controversial or hostile.
 G. I have been able to maintain relationships with co-workers with differing needs. I have tailored my interaction in response to those needs.
 H. None of the above.
5. Please select the answer that best depicts how you have handled a difficult situation related to strategic partnering with a customer or colleague.
 A. I have reached out to my supervisor or teammates for assistance in handling this task previously.
 B. This has not happened to me, but I am confident that if it did I would be able to provide resources and data to effectively manage the situation and receive buy in from the customer and/or colleague.
 C. I handled a difficult situation relating to strategic partnering by providing resources and data to effectively manage the situation and receive buy in from the customer and/or colleague. I am always prepared for strategic discussions by researching topic related information and having an understanding of the acumen.
 D. None of the above choices apply to me.
6. Choose the response that MOST accurately reflects your highest level of experience with respect to strategic thinking.
 A. I have identified best practices, process improvements, or new quality improvement opportunities. I have anticipated potential challenges and opportunities. I have developed and conducted high-level briefings designed to educate.
 B. I have identified best practices, process improvements, or new quality improvement opportunities for my immediate team. I have developed written proposals for consideration by management.
 C. I have identified best practices, process improvements, or new quality improvement opportunities. I have developed written proposals for consideration by senior management. I have formulated a plan that considers technological or financial impact.
 D. None of the above.
7. Please select the statement that best describes your experience in conducting ongoing research to evaluate the appropriate methodology for survey operations.
 A. I have experience conducting research or completing projects that demonstrate knowledge of theory, principles, and research methods for collecting statistical data.
 B. I have experience conducting research or completing projects that demonstrate an understanding of theory, principles, and research methods for collecting statistical data.
 C. I have experience providing answers to questions pertaining to routine theory, principles and research methods pertinent to collecting statistical data.
 D. I have experience performing multivariate analyses of statistical data.
 E. I have experience interpreting the results of multivariate analyses of statistical data.
 F. I have experience performing descriptive statistical analyses of statistical data.
 G. I have experience interpreting descriptive statistics from statistical data.
 H. None of the above.
8. Indicate which of the following sources of information you have utilized to access and analyze information and prepare reports. Select all that apply.
 A. Prism or other contract writing system.
 B. eOPF or other electronic personnel file system.
 C. HR Connect or other HR information systems.
 D. Oracle Business Intelligence (OBIE) or other financial management reporting tools.
 E. WebTA or other timekeeping system.
 F. FedScope or other national workforce data system.
 G. ServiceNow.
 H. Integrated Talent Management (ITM) or other learning systems.
 I. USAStaffing.
 J. Data Insight.
 K. Other federal HR data information sources.
 L. None of the above.
9. From the choices below, please identify the statement that best describes your experience managing projects.
 A. I have led teams/working groups and motivated others to accomplish a long-term project.
 B. I have participated as a team member on a long-term project.
 C. I have led teams/working groups and motivated others to accomplish a multitude of major projects.
 D. I have developed, tracked, and reported out on project statuses using Project Management tools and practices.
 E. I have participated as a team member for a multitude of major projects.
 F. None of the above.
10. Select the area(s) in which you have experience using business analysis, strategic planning and/or data analysis processes in managing activities. Select all that apply.
 A. I have set short-range objectives for the accomplishment of work.
 B. I have contributed to the development of program objectives.
 C. I have contributed to the development of unit level performance targets, and measures of success.
 D. I have set program priorities consistent with an organization's values, mission and vision.
 E. I have assessed customer needs.
 F. I have improved customer service across an organization.
 G. I have developed action plans to achieve long-range program goals.
 H. I have adjusted strategic policies and plans in respect to change, both internally and externally.
 I. I have structured a unit to achieve the organization's mission.
 J. I have experience incorporating business management and strategic planning processes into the management of activities.
 K. None of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected