Position Title
HEALTH TECHNICIAN (TELEHEALTH
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTB-12825878-26-EDM Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 29, 2025 to Monday, November 10, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Anderson, SC
 B. Columbia, SC


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


3.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Basic Requirements:


Select the response to best indicate how you meet the basic requirement for the Health Technician (Telehealth Clinical) occupation for the following 2 questions.


1.
Creditable Experience: To be creditable, experience must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) associated with a health care field or knowledge, skills, and abilities related to the current occupation. This may be paid or non-paid employment in the health care field.
 Experience. I have one year of experience in a health care field that demonstrates my ability to perform the work or provides an understanding of the work such as but not limited to a medical or clinical assistant (or technician) or health technician. I understand that I must fully detail this experience in my resume and that failure to do so may result in a not qualified rating.
 Education. I have completed four academic years above high school leading to a bachelor's degree with courses related to the occupation (transcript required)
 Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combination of experience and education are qualifying for entry level for which both education and experience are acceptable. Examples are:(a) Six months of experience in the health care field and two years of education above high school that included at least six semester hours in health care related courses such as, biological science, surgical technician courses, nursing assistant or other courses related to the position; or an associate's degree in a health care related field; or b) Six months of experience in the health care field and successful completion of a course for health care technicians, hospital corpsmen, or medical service specialists given by the U.S. Armed Forces. I understand that I must fully detail this experience in my resume and that failure to do so may result in a not qualified rating. I also understand that I must submit transcripts.
 Grandfathering provision: I was employed with the VHA on the effective date of the qualification standard (February 7, 2018) and have remained employed in that position. I understand that I must submit appropriate SF-50s (Notification of Personnel Action) to document this.
 I do not meet either of the requirements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
English Language Proficiency. To be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C., chapter 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in Veterans Health Administration, you must be proficient in spoken and written English.

Are you proficient in both spoken and written English?

 Yes
 No


Grade-Specific Requirements:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
GS-6 Requirements: This is the full performance level for this occupation. In addition to meeting the basic requirements for the occupation, applicants must also meet the GS-6 requirements.

To qualify for the GS-6 grade level, applicants must have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-5 grade level.

At the GS-5 grade level, assignments include, but are not limited to, schedules telehealth appointments using an electronic scheduling system; obtains and documents patient history and pertinent clinical information in electronic medical records; prepares the telehealth room to prepare for examination, establishes video conferencing connection, makes introduction between patient site and provider site; monitors and maintains electronic schedule of rooms, patients, technologies, and presenters; administers the patient satisfaction survey; cleans and performs routine maintenance of assigned telehealth technology.

Additionally, applicants must demonstrate all of the following knowledge, skills, and abilities:
- Comprehensive knowledge of computer systems and programs to perform a variety of tasks.
- Ability to communicate, consult, and interact with other members of the healthcare team, external relations, customer service and patient education.
- Ability to provide and receive guidance and technical direction.
- Ability to plan, organize, set priorities, work as a team member, and effectively complete assignments.
- Ability to read, interpret, and apply complex written instructions.
- Knowledge of general clinical policies and procedures in a healthcare environment.
- Skilled in the use of telehealth technologies for the facilitation of telehealth clinical encounters.

Do you meet these requirements? You must clearly detail this is your resume. Failure to do so may result in a not qualified rating.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙