Position Title
Physician (Obstetrics-Gynecology)
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJA-26-12810269-DHA-RS Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, October 7, 2025 to Tuesday, January 6, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Physician (Obstetrics-Gynecology) position with the Department of Defense. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you meet the basic eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Physician (Obstetrics-Gynecology) at the GP-0602-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have successfully obtained a Doctor of Medicine, Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine, or equivalent degree from a school in the United States or Canada. My degree was accredited by the Council on Medical Education of the American Medical Association, Association of American Medical Colleges, Liaison Committee on Medical Education, Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the American Osteopathic Association, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have successfully obtained a Doctor of Medicine or equivalent degree from a foreign medical school that provided education and medical knowledge equivalent to accredited schools in the United States. My education and medical knowledge is equivalent to accredited schools in the United States and demonstrated by permanent certification by the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMG), a fifth pathway certificate for Americans who completed premedical education in the United States and graduate education in a foreign country, or successful completion of the U.S. Medical Licensing Examination. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts and/or evidence of equivalency to accredited schools in the United States through permanent certification by the ECFMG, a fifth pathway certificate, or successful completion of the U.S. Medical Licensing Examination).
 I do not possess the education described above.


2.
Physician (Obstetrics-Gynecology) occupation requires a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physician from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. Do you possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physician from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States?

 Yes. (Note: You must attach a copy of your license.)
 No.


3.
The Physician (Obstetrics-Gynecology) occupation requires that subsequent to obtaining a Doctor of Medicine or Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine degree, a candidate must have had at least 1 year of supervised experience providing direct service in a clinical setting, i.e., a 1-year internship or the first year of a residency program in a hospital or an institution accredited for such training. From the options below, select the one which describes your supervised experience providing direct service in a clinical setting.

 I have at least one full year of supervised experience providing direct service in a clinical setting.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


4.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Physician (Obstetrics-Gynecology) at the GP-0602-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have successfully completed the required accredited residency training in the specialty of the position to be filled (Obstetrics-Gynecology) and equivalent experience and training equal to at least 4 years.
 I do not possess the training and/or experience described above.


5.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙