Position Title
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ANALYST
Agency
Organization of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
Announcement Number
JCS-25-12794165-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 16, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. *-1. From the list below, select the response that most closely represents your experience for the position of Financial Management Analyst, GS-0501-14.
 A. • A. GS-14: I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade-level (GS-13) in the federal service (experience may have been gained in the private/military sector) which has given me the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled (as described in the Qualifications Requirement section). Qualifying specialized experience would include the following: Fiscal Management: Assessing and providing recommendations on financial processes by applying expertise in fiscal disciplines, including budget (operating and procurement), accounting, appropriation policy, travel policy, property fiscal management, position resource management, IT, resource management, reimbursable funding and controls, Working Capital Funds, and to assess and provide related recommendations. Acquisition Management: Utilizing; acquisition functional disciplines including contract management, quality assurance, program and technical support, to address resource related concerns and acquisition opportunities for the Joint Staff J6. Legislative and Policy: Reviews and evaluates the content of new or modified legislation for projected impact upon Joint Staff J6 programs and resources; and/or in translating a basic legislation into program goals, actions, and services; Inter-Organizational Relations: Performing management studies and conceptualizing, developing, and implementing organization-wide programs by leveraging an understanding of relationships between the Joint Staff, Military Services, and other agencies. Program Management: Analyzing legislative and higher headquarters guidance to the budget impact on joint C4/Cyber programs and policies. requirements, policies, procedures and guidance.
 B. I don't have the required specialized experience for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected