Position Title
Maintenance Mechanic
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJG250182499099HP Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 3, 2025 to Wednesday, September 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Maintenance Mechanic position with the Department of Defense. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
1. From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Maintenance Mechanic duties without more than normal supervision.
 A. I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex maintenance and repair activities of a Maintenance Mechanic. I am skilled in following work orders, interpreting blueprints and specifications independently, planning the layout and the selection of tools such as ohmmeters, ammeters, voltmeters, pipe threading machines, calipers, various refrigeration gauges, pipe block machine, bandsaws, foot sheers, crimping, burring, and bending machines to maintain (or repair) large refrigeration and heat systems, oxygen, medical air, medical vacuum systems, and medical gas monitoring systems. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 B. I have the ability to perform the full range of maintenance and repair activities of a Maintenance Mechanic. I am skilled in following oral and written orders, interpreting blueprints, drawings, manufacturer’s installation instructions independently, planning the layout, selecting tools, supplies, parts, and materials to accomplish work. Make preventive maintenance inspections to determine safety hazards, damage, equipment evaluations, repair requirements to maintain many types of systems to include refrigeration, heat pumps, air curtains, large cold storage equipment, air compressors, and both pneumatic and electrotonic controls for heating systems. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 C. I have the ability to perform common maintenance and repair activities of a Maintenance Mechanic. I am skilled in following oral or written instructions set forth by a work leader or journey-level employee. I have the ability to follow instruction laid out, select tools of the trade to maintain and repair air conditioning and refrigeration systems, heat systems, ventilation equipment, air compressor units, vacuum pumps, refrigerators and small varieties of cooling storage equipment. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 D. I have the ability to perform simple repair or maintenance work of a Maintenance Mechanic or I have received training in this area.
 E. I do not possess the abilities described above.
2. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected