Position Title
Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist - MRI
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBST-12813583-26-KS Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 9, 2025 to Monday, October 20, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist position with the Veterans Healthcare System located in Pensacola, Florida. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Grandfathering Provision. All persons employed in VHA as a DRT on the effective date of December 13, 2019 are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education and certification that are part of the basic requirements of the DRT occupation. For employees who do not meet all of the basic requirements in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it, the following provisions apply: (1) DRTs that require a certification, may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance (journeyman) level, or changed to lower grade within the occupation, but may not be promoted beyond the journey level or placed in supervisory or managerial positions. (2) DRTs that require a certification only at higher grade levels must meet the certification requirement before they can be promoted to those higher grade levels. (3) DRTs who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standards may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed, on a temporary or permanent basis, until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard. (4) DRTs initially grandfathered into this occupation, who subsequently obtain additional education and/or certification that meet all of the basic requirements of this qualification standard must maintain the required credentials as a condition of employment in the occupation. (5) Employees who are retained as a DRT under this provision and subsequently leave the occupation lose protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of reentry as a DRT.


1.
English Language Proficiency:  DRTs must be proficient in spoken and written English

Are you proficient in spoken and written English ?
 Yes
 No


2.
Certification:  All applicants must be certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (ARRT) (R). Advanced ARRT certification is required for assignments that magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).  Advanced certification indicates that the incumbent [can operate independently] and has demonstrated specific clinical competency in the appropriate specialty and taken and passed the designated examination.

Please select the response below that most accurately describes the education that you possess. (Note: Transcripts/documentation of required certification must be submitted at the time of application).
 I am currently certified in general radiologic technology and magnetic resonance imaging by the American Registry of Radiologic Technologists, Radiography (ARRT) (R) and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (ARRT) (MRI). (Copy of certification required.)
 I wish to be considered under the Grandfathering provision - I am an employee employed in VHA in this occupational series or in another occupational series performing the duties as described in the qualification standard on the effective date of this qualification standard.
 I am not currently certified in general radiologic technology and magnetic resonance imaging by the American Registry of Radiologic Technologists, Radiography (ARRT) (R) and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (ARRT) (MRI).


3.
Education:  Completion of a full-time training course of at least 24 months in duration (or the 2 equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from [other accrediting agencies as recognized by the Department of Education (DOE).

Please select the response below that most accurately describes the education that you possess. (Note: Transcripts/documentation of required education must be submitted at the time of application).
 I have completed a full-time training course of at least 24 months in duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate. (Copy of transcripts required.)
 I have an associate degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from other accrediting agencies as recognized by the Department of Education (DOE).
 I wish to be considered under the Grandfathering provision - I am an employee employed in VHA in this occupational series or in another occupational series performing the duties as described in the qualification standard on the effective date of this qualification standard.
 I do not possess education requirement to meet basic qualification requirement for this position.


4.
Certification Information: Please provide the following information listed below: 
1.  Certification number-
2.  Issue date-
3.  Expiration date-

Note:  Certification must be in general radiologic technology and magnetic resonance imaging by the American Registry of Radiologic Technologists, Radiography (ARRT) (R) and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (ARRT) (MRI)


Grade Determinations:  In addition to the basic requirements for appointment, the following criteria must be used when determining the appropriate grade assignment of candidates:


5.
GS-9 Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist: 

1.  Experience. At least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, directly related to the position being filled that demonstrates the clinical competencies described at that level.

For all assignments above the full performance level, the higher-level duties must consist of significant scope, complexity (difficulty), and range of variety, and be performed by the incumbent at least 25% of the time. DRTs at this grade level may be appointed to one of the following assignments:  Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist employees at this level are fully functional as an advanced DRT and carry out their assigned tasks independently. DRTs at this level may have varying assignments including special and complex imaging procedures beyond the full performance level, clinical instruction, and basic QM type duties within the program. Regardless of the nature of the specific assignment, the work must be of sufficient scope and complexity to meet the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform at this level.

In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following technical KSAs and demonstrate the potential to acquire the assignment-specific KSAs designated by an asterisk (*):

1. *Ability to balance the needs of patients and staff while still performing complex scans and procedures.
2. Knowledge of techniques for gathering relevant information from the medical record, significant others, and health care providers.
3. *Ability to assess factors that may contraindicate the procedure.
4. Knowledge of basic first aid and basic life support practices related to radiography.
5. Knowledge of physical assessment, aseptic techniques, intravenous methods and techniques and universal precautions. vi. Knowledge of pre-procedural, procedural, and post-procedural care of patients.

Note: Please ensure your resume fully supports the claim to your response.

Please select the response below that most accurately describes the experience and Knowledge skills and abilities that you possess.
 I possess the experience, certifications and Knowledge skills and abilities required for this grade level.
 I do not possess the experience, certifications or Knowledge skills and abilities required for this grade level.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙