Position Title
Immigration Judge
Agency
Executive Office for Immigration Review
Announcement Number
DE-12768099-25-TNN Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, July 18, 2025 to Friday, January 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 3 location(s).
 A. Eloy Immigration Court, Eloy, AZ
 B. Florence Immigration Court, Florence, AZ
 C. Phoenix Immigration Court, Phoenix, AZ
 D. Tucson Immigration Court, Tucson, AZ
 E. Adelanto Immigration Court, Adelanto, CA
 F. Concord Immigration Court, Concord, CA
 G. Imperial Immigration Court, Imperial, CA
 H. Los Angeles (North) Immigration Court, Los Angeles, CA
 I. Los Angeles (West) Immigration Court, Los Angeles, CA
 J. Otay Mesa Immigration Court, Otay, CA
 K. Sacramento Immigration Court, Sacramento County, CA
 L. San Diego Immigration Court, San Diego, CA
 M. San Francisco Immigration Court, San Francisco, CA
 N. Santa Ana Immigration Court, Santa Ana, CA
 O. Los Angeles (Van Nuys) Immigration Court, Van Nuys, CA
 P. Aurora Immigration Court, Aurora, CO
 Q. Denver Immigration Court, Denver, CO
 R. Hartford Immigration Court, Hartford County, CT
 S. Miami (Krome) Immigration Court, Miami, FL
 T. Miami Immigration Court, Miami, FL
 U. Orlando Immigration Court, Orlando, FL
 V. Atlanta (Peachtree) Immigration Court, Atlanta, GA
 W. Atlanta (Ted Turner) Immigration Court, Atlanta, GA
 X. Stewart Immigration Court, Lumpkin, GA
 Y. Honolulu Immigration Court, Honolulu, HI
 Z. Chicago Immigration Court, Chicago, IL
 AA. Indianapolis Immigration Court, Indianapolis, IN
 AB. Baton Rouge Immigration Court, Baton Rouge, LA
 AC. LaSalle Immigration Court, Jena, LA
 AD. New Orleans Immigration Court, New Orleans, LA
 AE. Oakdale Immigration Court, Oakdale, LA
 AF. Baltimore Immigation Court, Baltimore, MD
 AG. Hyattsville Immigration Court, Hyattsville, MD
 AH. Boston Immigration Court, Boston, MA
 AI. Chelmsford Immigration Court, Chelmsford, MA
 AJ. Detroit Immigration Court, Detroit, MI
 AK. Fort Snelling Immigration Court, Fort Snelling, MN
 AL. Kansas City Immigration Court, Kansas City, MO
 AM. Omaha Immigration Court, Omaha, NE
 AN. Las Vegas Immigration Court, Las Vegas, NV
 AO. Elizabeth Immigration Court, Elizabeth, NJ
 AP. Newark Immigration Court, Newark, NJ
 AQ. Otero Immigration Court, Otero County, NM
 AR. Batavia Immigration Court, Batavia, NY
 AS. Buffalo Immigration Court, Buffalo, NY
 AT. New York (Broadway) Immigration Court, New York, NY
 AU. New York (Federal Plaza) Immigration Court, New York County, NY
 AV. New York (Varick) Immigration Court, New York Mills, NY
 AW. Ulster Immigration Court, Ulster County, NY
 AX. Charlotte Immigration Court, Charlotte, NC
 AY. Cleveland Immigration Court, Cleveland, OH
 AZ. Portland Immigration Court, Portland, OR
 BA. Philadelphia Immigration Court, Philadelphia, PA
 BB. San Juan Immigration Court, San Juan, PR
 BC. Memphis Immigration Court, Memphis, TN
 BD. Conroe Immigration Court, Conroe, TX
 BE. Dallas Immigration Court, Dallas, TX
 BF. El Paso (SPC) Immigration Court, El Paso, TX
 BG. El Paso Immigration Court, El Paso, TX
 BH. Fort Worth Immigration Adjudication Center (FWIAC), Fort Worth, TX
 BI. Harlingen Immigration Court, Harlingen, TX
 BJ. Houston Jefferson Street Immigration Court, Houston, TX
 BK. Houston S. Gessner Immigration Court, Houston, TX
 BL. Houston Greenspoint Park Immigration Court, Houston, TX
 BM. Laredo Immigration Court, Laredo, TX
 BN. Pearsall Immigration Court, Pearsall, TX
 BO. Port Isabel Immigration Court, Port Isabel, TX
 BP. San Antonio Immigration Court, San Antonio, TX
 BQ. Salt Lake City Immigration Court, Salt Lake City, UT
 BR. Annandale Immigration Court, Annandale, VA
 BS. Falls Church Immigration Adjudication Center (FCIAC), Falls Church, VA
 BT. Richmond Immigration Adjudication Center (IAC) Immigration Court, Richmond, VA
 BU. Sterling Immigration Court, Sterling, VA
 BV. Seattle Immigration Court, Seattle, WA
 BW. Tacoma Immigration Court, Tacoma, WA
2.

In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.

A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your responses are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.
1. Do you possess a Bachelor of Laws (LL.B), Juris Doctor (J.D.) or Master of Laws (LL.M.) degree?

 A. Yes, I possess a LL.B, J.D., or LL.M. degree.
 B. No, I do NOT possess this education.
2. Provide the month and year in which you obtained your degree and the name of the College or University from which it was conferred/awarded (MM/YYYY Name, e.g. 05/2010 University of Virginia):

3. Are you an active member of the bar, duly licensed and authorized to practice law as an attorney under the laws of any state, territory of the U.S., or the District of Columbia?

 A. Yes, I am an active member of the bar duly licensed and authorized to practice law as an attorney under the laws of a state, territory of the U.S., or the District of Columbia.
 B. No, I am NOT a member of the bar.
4. Provide the month and year in which you obtained your first license and the State from which it was issued (MM/YYYY ST, e.g. 05/2010 VA):

5. Do you have a minimum of seven (7) years of post-bar admission experience as a licensed attorney preparing for, participating in, and/or appealing court or administrative agency proceedings at the federal, state or local level? Qualifying trial experience involves cases in which a complaint was filed with a court or administrative agency, or a charging document (e.g., indictment, notice of violation, or information) was issued by a court, administrative entity, a grand jury, or appropriate military authority. Relevant administrative experience includes cases in which a formal procedure was initiated by a governmental administrative body.

 A. Yes, I have practiced as an attorney, post-bar admission, for a minimum of seven (7) years, and I have the specific litigation and/or administrative law experience as stated above.
 B. No, I do NOT have this experience.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected