Position Title
Maintenance Worker
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
MYPT-25-12786299 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, August 26, 2025 to Sunday, September 7, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. Are you willing and able to lift, carry and/or set up materials and equipment weighing up to forty (40) pounds, and occasionally handle materials and equipment weighing fifty (50) pounds and over?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Work will require prolonged standing, stooping, bending, kneeling, climbing, and working in tiring and uncomfortable conditions.  Are you willing and able to perform work with these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position.  Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.
1. Do you have at least two years of experience that demonstrates skill or knowledge in a combination of at least two of the following trades: carpentry, plumbing, air conditioning or painting?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. How much work experience do you have with performing drywall patching, painting and touch up painting?
 A. I have more than three (3) years of work experience performing tasks as described above.
 B. I have between two (2) and three (3) years of work experience performing tasks as described above.
 C. I have between one (1) and two (2) years of work experience performing tasks as described above.
 D. I have less than one (1) year of work experience performing tasks as described above.
 E. I have no work experience performing tasks as described above.
3. Describe your skill set with using skilled techniques to construct, install, repair or modify wood structures and wood working equipment to ensure finished product with precise fits, accurate dimensions and acceptable appearance.
 A. I have more than three (3) years of work experience performing tasks as described above.
 B. I have two (2) to three (3) years of work experience performing tasks as described above.
 C. I have between one (1) and two (2) years of work experience performing tasks as described above.
 D. I have less than one (1) year of work experience performing tasks as described above.
 E. I have no work experience performing tasks as described above.
4. How many years of experience do you have performing plumbing repairs, including but not limited to removing, cleaning, resealing, and replacing defective parts or units of utility, supply, and disposal systems (such as dirty traps, broken tiles, damaged pipes, leaky faucets, and stopped drains), as well as installing water heaters, garbage disposals, faucets, and sinks?  Selected response must be supported by your resume in order to receive credit.
 A. I have more than three (3) years of work experience performing tasks as described above.
 B. I have two (2) to three (3) years of work experience performing tasks as described above.
 C. I have one (1) to two (2) years of work experience performing tasks as described above.
 D. I have less than one year of experience performing tasks as described above.
 E. I have no work experience performing tasks as described above.
5. How much work experience do you have with air conditioning installations and/or repairs?
 A. I have more than three (3) years of experience performing tasks as described above.
 B. I have two (2) to three (3) years of experience performing tasks as described above.
 C. I have one (1) to two (2) years of experience performing tasks as described above.
 D. I have less than one (1) year of experience performing tasks as described above.
 E. I do not have any work experience performing tasks as described above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected