Position Title
Realty Specialist
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDA2512817224DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, October 20, 2025 to Thursday, October 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Realty Specialist, GS-1170-15 position with the Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified candidates for this position. For each question, select the item that reflects your experience; your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Realty Specialist at the GS-15 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service which includes: Utilizing strategic direction, policies, and mission for the organization in accordance with federal real estate disposal and environment guidelines; Independently determining methods for accomplishing objectives, communicating and coordinating with high level officials in the Army Real Estate mission; Frequently communicating with Major Commands, Major Subordinate Commands, installation Commanders, and high level representatives of other Federal agencies.
 My experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaire along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙