Position Title
Administrative Officer
Agency
U.S. Secret Service
Announcement Number
INV-JM-12781040-25-SS Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 14, 2025 to Wednesday, August 20, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position and meet the ALL of the following? 
Located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; and
Applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice.
SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), that reflects all of the following:
Position, grade level (GS-15 or below), and duty location; and
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is "1" or "2" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34), or excepted service without time limit (Position Occupied is "2" in block 34) who is covered by a law providing both noncompetitive appointment eligibility to, and selection priority for, competitive service positions.
Any documentation from agency that shows current promotion potential; and
Latest performance appraisal including rating.
For more information, review Career Transition (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current United States Secret Service employee in the competitive service?

To verify eligibility, as a CURRENT Secret Service Employee you must submit your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following (you may need to submit more than one SF-50 to comply):
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is 1 or 2 in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34); and
Highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent SF-50); and
Time-in-grade eligibility.
Please note: Examples of appropriate Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, include promotions and with-in grade/range increases. While a General Adjustment and/or Award SF-50 may be your most recent SF-50 it typically DOES NOT show proof of Time in Grade. Thus, you may need to submit more than one SF-50 as proof of Time in Grade.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Chicago, IL
 B. Irving, TX
Conditions of Employment
1. In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF-50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. If I receive a conditional offer of employment, I am willing to undergo a pre-employment drug screening.
 A. Yes
 B. No
All applicants must complete the following section. This section will be used to determine your ability and willingness to accept certain conditions of employment or meet certain requirements of the position. Please respond 'Yes' or 'No' to the following statements. Failure to respond to this section will result in an ineligible rating.
All applicants must undergo a comprehensive background investigation. The background investigation focuses on your honesty, reliability, police record, financial record, use of alcohol and drugs, mental health, and employment record. The background investigation includes interviews with your past and present employers, neighbors, teachers, and references, as well as checks of law enforcement, credit, educational, medical, and other records.
3. Recruiter ID Number: If you have one, please enter your recruiter's ID number. (Your recruiter would have supplied it to you). If you do not have one, please enter 0 (zero). (limit 7 characters)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Administrative Officer position with the United States Secret Service. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.

 


1. Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Administrative Officer at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service which includes one (1) year equivalent to at least GS-12 performing duties such as supervising or serving as a lead over a staff supporting operations functions; managing operational support functions such as finance and budget, procurement, records management and inventory control; using office automation systems and databases to develop office correspondence, reports and standard operation procedures; collaborating with internal and external stakeholder to meet administrative operational objectives; providing guidance on administrative policies, practices and procedures.
 B. My experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.
2. From the list below, select the statement that best describes your experience in supervision and leadership.
 A. In my past work assignments, I have had middle or executive supervision authority.
 B. In my past work assignments, I have been a team leader, articulating goals and outcomes and motivating others to achieve them.
 C. In my past work assignments, I have worked to promote cooperation, coordination of work and process efficiencies.
 D. In my past work assignments, I have developed methods for handling potential work flow problems arising from urgent or emergency situations.
 E. None of the above
3. From the list below, select all of the statements that demonstrate your experience dealing with employee performance and conduct issues, employee grievances and complaints.
 A. Heard and resolved complaints from individual employees, and referred group grievances and more serious unresolved complaints to a higher-level manager.
 B. Heard and resolved group grievances or serious employee complaints.
 C. Counseled employees on behavior, and effect minor disciplinary measures such as warnings and reprimands, recommending other action in more serious cases.
 D. Reviewed and approved serious disciplinary actions (e.g., suspensions).
 E. Developed performance standards to track and evaluate the progress and quality of the work of employees with demonstrated performance problems.
 F. I have not directly dealt with employee performance and conduct issues, or grievances and complaints.
4. From the list below select the statement that best describes your experience in working in or leading teams in a professional setting.
 A. I have had no experience in working in or leading teams in a professional setting.
 B. I have participated as a team member, receiving task assignments and project goals from my supervisor or team leader.
 C. I have served as a team leader, communicating task assignments and project goals to team members and monitoring their progress.
 D. I have led several teams, ensuring that project goals and deadlines were met, and I provided feedback to team members on their performance.
5. From the list below, select all of the statements that demonstrate your experience as a team leader or mentor.
 A. Setting expectations.
 B. Advising on tasks.
 C. Defining roles.
 D. Assigning responsibilities.
 E. Developing performance measurement criteria.
 F. Integrating schedules.
 G. Forecasting and setting milestones.
 H. Coordinating project resources issues.
 I. Participating in programming decisions.
 J. Monitoring progress.
 K. None of the above
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
6. From the list below, select the statement that best represents your experience recommending improvements on administrative policies and procedures to leadership.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
7. From the list below, select all of the areas with which you have experience as they relate to the procurement of goods and/or services.
 A. Preparing and submitting procurement requests.
 B. Preparing procurement justifications.
 C. Tracking and ensuring the accuracy and quality of procured items and/or services.
 D. Reviewing and authenticating procurement requests submitted by others.
 E. Preparing and disseminating procedural procurement guidelines for use by others.
 F. None of the above
8. From the list below, select all of the types of property you have experience procuring and applying inventory control processes/procedures.
 A. Office supplies
 B. Office equipment
 C. Office furniture
 D. Computer hardware/software
 E. None of the above
9. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe your experience with planning and managing property (furniture, equipment, motor vehicles, computers, etc.).
 A. Assessing property needs.
 B. Participating in the development of contract specifications for property.
 C. Coordinating relocation activities.
 D. Surveying the market for product best suited for the need.
 E. Preparing requisitions for property purchases.
 F. Preparing requisitions for property maintenance and repair.
 G. Maintaining property management records.
 H. Conducting inventories of accountable property.
 I. Preparing reports of lost, stolen, or damaged property.
 J. None of the above
10. From the list below, select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience preparing layouts for office or industrial space.
 A. I have not performed this function.
 B. I have received education and training in preparing layouts for office or industrial space, but I have not performed this function on the job.
 C. I have routinely and independently prepared layouts for office or industrial use.
 D. I am highly skilled at preparing layouts for office or industrial space. I have developed such layouts using information concerning the work to be performed in the space, workflow, ergonomics, available utilities, lighting, etc. I have provided recommendations for interior design, furniture selections, equipment selections, and space management/utilization concerning space used by my employer.
11. From the list below, select the Contracting Officer Technical Representative certification you currently hold.
 A. COTR Level I
 B. COTR Level II
 C. COTR Level III
 D. None of the above
12. From the list below, select all of the statements that best describe your experience in human resources management and development.
 A. Preparing personnel action requests for hiring and promotion.
 B. Processing requests for training.
 C. Processing reasonable accommodation requests.
 D. Preparing performance standards.
 E. Reviewing and maintaining performance appraisal records.
 F. Reviewing and maintaining employee personnel files.
 G. Preparing recommendations for incentive awards.
 H. Preparing overtime pay authorizations.
 I. Interviewing applicants.
 J. Documenting candidate selection decisions.
 K. None of the above
13. From the list below, select the Human Resources systems you have experience utilizing.
 A. Timekeeping system
 B. Talent acquisition system
 C. Human Resources processing system
 D. Master Personnel System
 E. Other Human Resources automated system(s)
 F. None of the above
14. From the list below, select the statement that best describes your experience reporting to higher level officials on program status and problems that require resolution or changes to plans and schedules.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have reported primarily to my immediate supervisor, both formally and informally, on program status and problems requiring changes to plans and schedules.
 C. I have given formal briefings or prepared formal written reports to higher level officials in my organization regarding program status and problems requiring changes to plans and schedules, and I have provided concrete recommendations for resolving the problems.
 D. I have prepared formal written reports and conducted presentations to higher level officials within and outside of my organization regarding program status, including recommendations for resolving programs or changing plans and schedules to prevent future problems.
15. From the list below, select the statement that best represents your experience with various budgetary procedures.
 A. I have performed general administrative and budgetary procedures.
 B. I have performed analyses of budget data as a regular part of my job
 C. I have assisted in the formulation and execution of a budget.
 D. I have held decision authority in the formulation and execution of a budget.
 E. None of the above
16. From the list below, select all of the statements that describe your demonstrated experience in communicating verbally with high-level management, stakeholders, headquarters, or other external groups on a regular and recurring basis.
 A. I have briefed senior executive level government officials and/or key decision makers on programmatic issues.
 B. I have made presentations on behalf of my employer to industry, professional, respondent, or advisory groups regarding work topics.
 C. I have organized, presented, and/or defended controversial decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations to high-level management officials, stakeholders, or other external groups.
 D. I have served as a spokesperson for an organization.
 E. I have explained policy and procedural requirements to other offices within the organization.
 F. I have conducted or led briefings, meetings, conferences, or negotiations.
 G. I have facilitated communications and activities between organizational entities.
 H. I have served on panels, or led committees or task forces on technical, programmatic and/or professional issues.
 I. I have regularly consulted by others on technical and/or professional issues.
 J. None of the above
17. From the list below select the statement that best describes your experience advising the staff of new regulations, policies, practices and procedures impacting the administrative function.
 A. I have no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job independently and usually without review by my supervisor, manager or senior employee.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
18. Do you have experience advising managers on the budget process?
 A. Yes
 B. No
19. Have you provided advice and assistance to staff to ensure final products are compliant with organization's policies and practices?
 A. Yes
 B. No
20. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected