Position Title
Program Analyst
Agency
Office of the Secretary of Defense
Announcement Number
OUSDAS-25-12755310-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 15, 2025 to Monday, July 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current employee of the hiring agency who meets one of the categories listed below?

Civilian Employee Serving on a Permanent Competitive Service Appointment.  You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action (block 24 if your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "1").

Civilian Employees Serving on a Permanent Excepted Service Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA).  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current WHS-serviced Excepted Service VRA appointment (Block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "2").

Civilian Employees Serving on a Temporary or TERM Appointment.  This category ONLY includes those who have a personal career or career-conditional status, earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service.  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s, (1) an SF-50 showing career or career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be "1").

NOTE:  If you are serviced by WHS you are not required to submit an SF-50.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for applying to the Program Analyst, NH-0343-04 position with the Office of the Secretary of Defense for Acquisition & Sustainment (OUSD (A&S)).
1. Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Program Analyst at the NH-0343-04 (GS-14/15) grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector.
 A. I have one year of experience in the same or similar work equivalent to at least the next lower grade level NH-03 (GS-13 equivalent) requiring application of the knowledge, skills, and abilities of the position being filled. Candidates for this position must clearly demonstrate in their resume that they possess the following specialized experience: Expert knowledge of, and skill in applying, a wide range of complex inspection, investigation, enforcement, and/or compliance principles, concepts, and practices; criminal and case law precedents; administrative and legal procedures; requirements of various legal jurisdictions; and a broad range of advanced research methodologies. Use as guidance basic legislation, judicial rulings, and broad policy statements which are often ambiguous and require extensive interpretation; Expert knowledge in analyzing data from a variety of sources, considering the impact, interrelationships, and complex patterns; confirms the accuracy and authenticity of information, and resolves issues of contradictory, missing, or inconclusive data; or resolves unusually complex jurisdictional issues through extensive coordination efforts. Practical expertise in planning and conducting multi-agency, multi-state, or international studies, reviews, or investigations; developing operational criteria, plans, and bulletins; or investigating or analyzing a variety of unusual situations.
 B. My experience is not reflected in the above statement.
This position has Conditions of Employment that must be obtained prior to your start date and maintained for the duration of this employment.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. This position may require you to pass screening for illegal drug use prior to appointment and subsequent periodic drug screening thereafter. Are you willing to meet the drug testing requirements?

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This position may require you to obtain and maintain a Top Secret/SCI Special Sensitive security clearance. Are you willing to meet the security clearance requirements?

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. This position may require travel away from your normal duty station on military or commercial aircraft. Are you willing to meet the travel requirements?

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Please select the response below that best describes your experience in gathering, analyzing, planning, and organizing work and presenting data to supporting analyses on recommended courses of action through the use of various quantitative analysis and statistical techniques.

 A. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 B. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 D. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 E. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee.
6. Please select the response below that best describes your experience building coalitions across diverse stakeholder groups to gain support and influence over high visibility projects, plans, programs, and policies.

 A. I have participated on a team that has built coalitions across diverse stakeholder groups to gain support and influence over high visibility projects, plans, programs, and policies.
 B. I have built coalitions across diverse stakeholder groups to gain support and influence over high visibility projects, plans, programs, and policies.
 C. Building coalitions across diverse stakeholder groups to gain support and influence over high visibility projects, plans, programs, and policies has been a regular part of my job. I perform this duty independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 D. Building coalitions across diverse stakeholder groups to gain support and influence over high visibility projects, plans, programs, and policies has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 E. I have not had experience building coalitions across diverse stakeholder groups to gain support and influence over high visibility projects, plans, programs, and policies.
7. Please select the response that best describes your experience developing group dynamics and management practices and techniques to plan, direct and negotiate effectively with representatives from diverse organizations to reach accepted positions.

 A. Developing group dynamics and management practices and techniques to plan, direct and negotiate effectively with representatives from diverse organizations to reach accepted positions has been a regular part of my job. I perform this duty independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee.
 B. Developing group dynamics and management practices and techniques to plan, direct and negotiate effectively with representatives from diverse organizations to reach accepted positions has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 C. Developing group dynamics and management practices and techniques to plan, direct and negotiate effectively with representatives from diverse organizations to reach accepted positions under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 D. I have participated on a team developing group dynamics and management practices and techniques to plan, direct and negotiate effectively with representatives from diverse organizations to reach accepted positions.
 E. I have not had experience or training in developing group dynamics and management practices and techniques to plan, direct and negotiate effectively with representatives from diverse organizations to reach accepted positions.
8. I have documented experience developing management and/or program evaluation plans, procedures, and methodology.

 A. False
 B. True
9. From the following list of communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied. (Select all that apply)

 A. Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective.
 B. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments.
 C. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff.
 D. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations.
 E. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals.
 F. None of the above
10. Of the following office automation tools select all you routinely utilize to design and generate reports, briefing materials, and/or comparable documents. (Select all that apply)

 A. MS Word
 B. Power Point
 C. Excel
 D. Outlook
 E. Adobe Acrobat
 F. None of the above
11. Please select the response that best describes your experience articulating, negotiating, persuading and implementing policies, procedures and processes required by changes in the political, legislative, economic or operating environments.

 A. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 B. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 C. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 D. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 E. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
12. Select the statement that best represents your experience planning and organizing multi-national/international meetings and conferences.

 A. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 B. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 D. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 E. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
13. Select the statement that best describes your experience analyzing and evaluating (on a quantitative or qualitative basis) the effectiveness of program operations in meeting established goals and objectives.

 A. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 B. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 C. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 D. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 E. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
14. Of the following statements please select all you have documented experience performing on a job. (Select all that apply)

 A. I have anticipated problems, developed sound solutions and action plans to ensure program/mission accomplishment.
 B. I routinely identified and optimized resources to accomplish multiple projects/programs goals.
 C. I have documented experience developing, integrating, and implementing solutions to diverse, highly complex problems across multiple areas and disciplines.
 D. I routinely developed plans and techniques to fit new situations to improve overall program and policies.
 E. I have introduced and/or implemented innovative approaches to resolve unusual/difficult issues significantly impacting important policies or programs.
 F. I have stratified resources against approved programs, to plan, present, and execute budgets, to analyze budget impacts on programs, and to forecast long-term funding requirements.
 G. I have executed projects and/or studies within established financial and time constraints.
 H. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
15. Your ratings in this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents you submitted. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning; 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy; and 3) have verified that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability as reflected in your resume. Do you certify the accuracy of your responses?

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected