Position Title
Contract Specialist
Agency
Federal Emergency Management Agency
Announcement Number
T5-OCPO-JD-12760052-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 10, 2025 to Monday, July 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)

Are you a current or former FEMA Stafford Act employee eligible under the Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)?

Current and former FEMA Stafford Act employees who can document 64 or more hours of paid time, per pay period, with no breaks in service* for 78 or more consecutive pay periods since August 1, 2014, are eligible to be considered for this Merit Promotion Job Opportunity Announcement. (*Note: A "break in service" is defined as 3 or more days in non-pay status, except as allowed under 5 CFR § 315.201(b)(3)(ii) for special circumstances such as military deployment, etc.).

To verify eligibility, you must submit: 
"Notice of DRRA Eligibility" provided by OCHCO.  If you believe you're eligible, but have not received your notice, please reach out to the HR Specialist listed in the announcement.
Your FEMA SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your appointment in the excepted service under the Stafford Act.  We recommend attaching a SF-50 which indicates your highest grade and step.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Current FEMA Employee

Are you a current FEMA employee who currently holds OR has previously held a permanent (not time limited) position in the competitive service?

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your permanent competitive status.  Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions.  You may need to submit more than one SF-50.  Your SF-50 must reflect:
Block 24 - Tenure:  1 - Permanent (career) or 2 - Conditional: AND
Block 34 - Position Occupied:  1 - Competitive Service
If you previously held a career or career conditional appointment, you must provide your current SF-50 and your SF-50 which shows competitive status eligibility.
Please do not submit an award SF-50, as it might not indicate your grade level and step.  
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. FEMA Employees Only Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)
Are you a current or former FEMA employee who is considered displaced or surplus (you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction in Force)?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, your most recent performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Emmitsburg, MD
2. How did you hear about this Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) job opportunity?
 A. USAJOBS
 B. FEMA's Social Media (Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Online Job board (Indeed, Zip Recruiter, etc.)
 D. FEMA.gov Careers Website
 E. FEMA Virtual Hiring Event
 F. FEMA On-Site Hiring Event
 G. College/University/Alumni Organization
 H. FEMA Employee Referral
 I. Other
3. Are you a retiree receiving a federal annuity (either military or civilian)? Or have you accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years? (Select all that apply.)
 A. Yes, I'm receiving a military annuity.
 B. Yes, I'm receiving a civilian annuity.
 C. Yes, I've received a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
 D. No, I am not receiving a federal annuity and have not accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
4. Are you a current FEMA employee?
 A. I'm a current FEMA Local Hire Employee
 B. I'm a current FEMA Reservist Employee
 C. I'm a current FEMA CORE Employee
 D. I'm a current FEMA PFT Employee
 E. I'm a current FEMA Senior Executive Service Employee
 F. I'm not a current FEMA Employee
5. Are you currently serving, or have served within the last five years, as a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) employee in the Executive Branch?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Please provide the following information regarding your political appointment(s): 1. Official Title of Position; 2. Type of Appointment (i.e. Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career SES); 3. Name of Agency; 4. Date Position began; and 5. Date Position ended. (NOTE: If you have never held a political appointment, please enter N/A.)
7. Within the past five years, have you received a buyout or payment through the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment Authority (VSIP) when separating from a federal position?
 A. No
 B. Yes, and I understand candidates who are reemployed with the federal government within five years after receiving a buyout or payment under VSIP are required to repay the entire amount of the incentive prior to their onboarding date.
8. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?

Select "Not Applicable" if this question does not apply to you.
 A. Yes
 B. No, but I have an exemption
 C. I am a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, and have NOT registered with the Selective Service System and do NOT have an exemption.
 D. Not Applicable
2. All FEMA employees are subject to 24-hour on-call in the event of an emergency and all Federal employees may be subject to emergency deployment. In the event of an emergency deployment, travel requirements may be extensive in nature (weeks to months), with little advance notice, and may require relocation to emergency sites, some of which are quite austere. The length of deployment may last anywhere from days to months, depending upon the nature of the emergency or disaster.

Every FEMA employee is considered an emergency manager and each employee has regular and recurring emergency management responsibilities, although not every position requires routine deployment to disaster sites. Your emergency management duties may vary depending on the needs of the Agency, your particular skills, and certain personal circumstances. All positions may require irregular work hours, work at locations other than the official duty station, and may include duties other than those specified in the employee's official position description.

Are you able to meet this commitment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

In order to be hired for this position, applicants must undergo and successfully pass a background investigation. This may include a review of financial issues, such as delinquency, child support and/or tax obligations, as well as certain criminal offenses and illegal use of or possession of drugs.

Are you willing to undergo a background investigation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Your responses to the questions below will be used in the evaluation of your qualifications for this position. Your resume and application materials must support the level of experience and/or education you claim in this questionnaire. If after a complete review of your application package, a determination is made that you overstated your qualifications, you may be rated ineligible for this position.
1. Individual Occupation Requirement (IOR): Select the response that best describes your education and experience.
 A. Completion of all mandatory training prescribed by the head of the agency for progression to GS-13 or higher-level contracting positions, including at least 4-years' experience in contracting or related positions. At least 1 year of that experience must have been specialized experience at or equivalent to work at the next lower level of the position, and must have provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the work of the position.
 B. A 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree, that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management.
 C. I am an employee in a GS-1102 position since January 1,2000 and therefore have met the standards (Individual Occupation Requirements) for the 1102 by exception.
 D. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.
2. Do you have one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-12 level, as defined in the vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. FAC-C Certification: From the list below, select the response that describes the level of training/certification prescribed by the Federal Acquisition Institute (FAI/FAC-C) or equivalent you possess. Please note, you must attach the certificate/certification to your application to support your response.
 A. I possess a FAC-C Level I certification or equivalent certification.
 B. I possess a FAC-C Level II certification or equivalent certification.
 C. I possess a FAC-C Level III certification or equivalent certification.
 D. I do not possess any of the above.
4. Please indicate where and when you obtained each of the specialized experience requirements listed in the Qualifications section of this Job Opportunity Announcement. Include in your response: (1) the area of specialized experience; (2) the place of employment; and, (3) the specific dates of employment the experience was gained in MM/DD/YYYY - MM/DD/YYYY format. Your response must be supported by your resume.

Example: Experience in developing and delivering presentations and training; ABC Company; 10/01/2016 - 05/15/2018.
5. Choose the following laws and regulations that you have used for contract matters:
 A. I have experience using Comptroller General Decisions and Executive Orders
 B. I have experience using FEMA regulations
 C. I have used the Office of Management and Budget (OMB)
 D. I have experience using the Office of Federal Procurement-Policy (OFPP)
 E. I have used the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)
 F. I have used none of the above.
6. Select from the following choice(s) to which you have provided contracting and procurement advice.
 A. Long-term pre-award/post-award procurement actions.
 B. Contract negotiations.
 C. Termination of contract services when no longer needed.
 D. Contract administration.
 E. Contract specifications.
 F. None of the above.
7. Have you evaluated proposals to ensure that they are performed according to the terms and conditions of the solicitation?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience evaluating price proposals.
 A. I have evaluated bids or offers for responsiveness to a solicitation.
 B. I have evaluated whether an offeror has the ability to perform the contract.
 C. I have reviewed the reasonableness of prices or bids offered.
 D. I have evaluated past performance data included in bids or offers.
 E. I have coordinated with technical subject matter experts for soundness of technical approach on bids or offers.
 F. I have advised a source selection panel.
 G. I have served as a liaison between contractor and government during the evaluation phase.
 H. None of the above.
9. From the list below, select the Federal regulation(s) or policies with which you are required to have knowledge of and apply in your current position.
 A. Prompt Payment Act
 B. Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)
 C. Federal Travel Regulations (FTR)
 D. Anti-Deficiency Act
 E. Office of Federal Procurement Policy (OFPP) Guides
 F. Congressional Notifications
 G. None of the above
10. I have utilized my interpersonal communication skills in the following area(s). (Select all that apply.)
 A. Dealt with individuals who were difficult, hostile or distressed.
 B. Succeeded in interacting and working with multiple levels of co-workers, supervisors and high level management.
 C. Identified and responded to critical events with diplomacy and action.
 D. Stayed with a position or plan of action until the desired objective was achieved or it was no longer reasonably attainable.
 E. Persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, or alternative viewpoints.
 F. Guided individuals (subordinates, peers, superiors) or groups toward task accomplishment.
 G. Maintained effectiveness in varying environments and with varying tasks, responsibilities, or people.
 H. Negotiated with others to reach agreement, settlement, consensus, compliance, or a solution.
 I. None of the above.
11. Choose the statement that best describes your experience providing customer support services.
 A. I have no experience providing customer support services.
 B. I have provided customer support services as directed by others.
 C. I have led planning activities that resulted in customer support programs implemented throughout the organization.
 D. I have developed and interpreted policies, procedures, and strategies governing delivery of all customer support services.
 E. None of the above
12. Do you have experience monitoring contractor efforts to insure the contractor is meeting technical requirements and/or providing services as required by the contract and the Contracting Officer?
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Do you have experience working in a team setting?
 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Please take this opportunity to review your question responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you understand this statement, have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected