Position Title
Medical Instrument Technician (Hemodialysis)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSX-12811521-26-JAD Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, October 7, 2025 to Friday, October 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


2.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Medical Instrument Technician (Hemodialysis) position with the VA. Please provide an answer to each question. Failing to respond to any of the below questions will result in an ineligible rating.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you currently considered a Citizens of the United States?
 Yes
 No


2.
English Language Proficiency. Medical Instrument Technicians must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with chapter 2, section D, paragraph 5a. Are you proficient in written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


3.
Candidates at the GS-8 Grade Level require one (1) year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level (GS-7) which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities (KSA), and other characteristics of the positions to be filled. In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Knowledge of the hemodialysis process and equipment needed for home/self care including knowledge of common machine problems and repairs to such equipment.
Knowledge of the equipment and procedures for peritoneal dialysis.
Ability to assist the physician with percutaneous renal biopsies and peritoneal catheter insertion.
Ability to provide instruction to dialysis patients in home/self care and in the maintenance of equipment.
Ability to provide instruction for physicians, nurses, and other personnel in dialysis procedures, equipment operation and maintenance, etc.
Do you meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you currently have the either of the following certifications, BCLS (Basic Cardiac Life Support) and ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support)?
 I have BCLS (Basic Cardiac Life Support) certification.
 I have ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support) certification.
 I do not have neither BCLS (Basic Cardiac Life Support) nor ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support) certification.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙