Position Title
Therapeutic Radiologic Technologist (Dosimetrist)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSR-12813527-26-BK Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, October 14, 2025 to Wednesday, January 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Basic Requirements for the position of Therapeutic Radiologic Technologist (Dosimetrist) GS-648


To qualify for this position, you must meet the basic requirements as well as any additional requirements (if applicable) listed in the job announcement. Applicants pending the completion of training or license requirements may be referred and tentatively selected but may not be hired until all requirements are met.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Education Requirement - You must have successfully completed a medical dosimetry program of at least 12 months long accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) and a baccalaureate degree is required. JRCERT is the accrediting agency for the medical dosimetry programs recognized by the U.S. Department of Education.

Do you meet the education requirement as described above?
 Yes
 No


2.
Certification - Candidates must be certified in medical dosimetry by the Medical Dosimetrist Certification Board (MDCB). Certified Medical Dosimetry (CMD) is the recognized credential for Medical Dosimetrists.

NOTE: CMDs who perform therapeutic radiologic technologist duties must also possess American Registry of Radiologic Technology (ARRT) (T) certification and be assigned to a functional statement that combines both types of work.

Do you meet the certification requirement as described above?
 Yes
 No


Minimum Requirement for GS-12 Level


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Experience - You must have at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level that demonstrates the core competencies described at that level and must fully meet the knowledge, skills, and abilities at that level. In addition to the basic requirements, the candidate must demonstrate the following knowledge, skills, and abilities:
Skill at effective communication and leadership as demonstrated by providing orientation and training for staff, providing input for yearly appraisals, directing progress and coordination of workload, ensuring compliance with standard operating procedures and directives to provide continuity of care.
Skill in providing guidance and expertise related to all aspects of the treatment planning process.
Ability to resolve complex physical and geometric errors of the radiation equipment, simulation procedure and treatment delivery implementation.
Knowledge of the care and use of radioactive resources for implementation and treatment delivery.
Skill to independently perform complex treatment procedures as evidenced by completing tasks such as developing and troubleshooting highly complex isodose treatment plans delineating critical structures and tumor volumes, performing weekly chart checks, performing QA verifications and providing training on all aspects of the Record and Verify system such as Mosaiq or Aria.
Ability to follow protocols including, but not limited to developing and implementing policies and standard operating procedures, participating in research programs and ensuring compliance with radiation safety office, national program office, accrediting agencies and follow established quality standard measures.
Ability to perform the application of a broad range of specific methods of radiation measurements including, but not limited to, diode, ion chamber, thermoluminescent dosimeter (TLD), or film measurement as directed by a qualified Medical Physicist and perform or assist with the QA procedures as directed by a qualified Medical Physicist.

Do you meet the requirements as described above?
 Yes
 No


4.
English Language Proficiency. Candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f).
 
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙