Position Title
IT Specialist (APPSW/SYSANALYSIS)
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLAJ6-25-12756271-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, June 30, 2025 to Wednesday, July 9, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. .

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and are applying a for a promotion?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).



 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and have held a position at or above the target grade for this position?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).


 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
are entitled to veterans preference?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
2. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Battle Creek, MI
 B. Whitehall, OH
 C. Wright-Patterson AFB, OH
 D. New Cumberland Defense Logistics Center, PA
 E. Philadelphia, PA
 F. Hill AFB, UT
 G. Fort Belvoir, VA
 H. Richmond, VA
3. Do you have a current (or last) performance rating of at least Fully Successful or the equivalent?
 A. Yes. I am a current Federal employee or have been within the previous 52 weeks and my most recent performance rating of record is at or above the Fully Successful or equivalent level.
 B. I am a current Federal employee but have not yet received a Federal performance rating.
 C. I am not a current Federal employee or have not been during the previous 52 weeks, therefore I do not possess a Federal performance rating.
 D. No. My performance rating is below the Fully Successful or equivalent.
4. Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) in the past 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement
Assessment 1
1. From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.

 A. I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Knowledge and expertise in one or more of the following areas: cloud platforms, LowCode Platforms, DevSecOps, API?s, ERP, Identity and Access Management, Digital Innovation and Modernization will be preferred; Experience in providing advice, recommendations, strategies, technical oversight, coordination, and conducts analysis, technology assessments, analysis of alternatives, architecture and design activities, project planning, roadmaps, justifications, and evaluations with emphasis upon Digital Business Transformation (DBX), Digital Innovation, COTS, ERPs, technology capabilities, requirements assessment, system/component design, development, systems engineering, software modernization strategies and methodologies, data engineering, and testing methodology; Experience in developing and performing briefs to senior leaders and providing expert guidance to Program and Portfolio Managers and technical personnel; Experience in ensuring rigorous application of systems engineering and architecture frameworks and methodologies, compliance with cybersecurity, DoD and DLA policies, principles, and knowledge in software modernization practices to the delivery of application software services; Experience in coordinating the efforts of a groups of technical personnel, management, and stakeholders who translate critical end user requirements into software system design specifications; Experience in identifying and writing requirements for any acquisitions needed for development and operation of services, hardware, software, and telecommunications environment; Experience in AI/ML and GenAI strategy, technology evaluation and implementation are highly preferred.
 B. I do not possess the required level of specialized experience and/or education to qualify for this position.
In this part you will respond to questions about your experience as it relates to the position for which you are applying. Carefully review the level descriptions listed below. For each task question, choose the level description that best describes your experience and/or training. Your responses must be fully supported within the text of your resume. Failure to properly identify your experience may result in the lowering of your overall score and/or your disqualification for this position.
2. Analyze technical requirements for applications to determine optimal IT configurations (e.g., hardware, software,network medium).

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have gathered the technical requirements for applications for a supervisor or senior- level employee to determine optimal IT configurations.
 C. I have independently analyzed technical requirements for applications to determine optimal IT configurations.
 D. I have supervised or trained others on how to analyze technical requirements for applications to determine optimal IT configurations.
 E. None of the above.
3. Determine the technical feasibility of a proposed software application configuration change based on requirements.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have consulted guidance documents (e.g., standard operating procedures, installation documentation) to determine the technical feasibility of a proposed software application configuration change.
 C. I have determined the technical feasibility of a proposed software application configuration change where guidance documents (e.g., standard operating procedures, installation documentation) did not exist.
 D. I have written guidance documents (e.g., standard operating procedures, installation documentation) to determine the technical feasibility of a proposed software application configuration change.
 E. None of the above.
4. Develop functional or technical requirements for software applications based on business requirements.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have assisted with the development of functional or technical requirements by translating stakeholder needs into an IT solution.
 C. I have developed functional or technical requirements for software applications based on business requirements.
 D. I have served on the requirements board to approve functional or technical requirements for a software
 E. None of the above.
5. Evaluate requirements to develop and/or review Requests For Information (RFIs) to explore vendor solutions.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have assisted with writing a portion of an RFI to distribute to vendors.
 C. I have written a complete RFI to distribute to vendors.
 D. I have evaluated RFI responses to determine vendor solution options based on business requirements.
 E. None of the above.
6. Which of the following phases of the IT systems lifecycle have you participated in? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Requirements gathering.
 B. Analysis
 C. Design
 D. Build
 E. Test
 F. Implement
 G. Maintenance or sustainment
 H. Enhancement or optimization
 I. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
7. Analyze software problems (e.g., defects, communications, configurations) to facilitate resolution.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have performed software testing to analyze problems for others to resolve.
 C. I have performed software troubleshooting and developed a solution after someone else analyzed the problem.
 D. I have analyzed problems and facilitated issue resolution by deploying modifications to software.
 E. None of the above.
8. Design software solutions to comply with security and privacy requirements.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have designed software solutions to comply with security and privacy requirements for standalone software or a module.
 C. I have designed software solutions to comply with security and privacy requirements for interrelated software systems or modules.
 D. I have advised or trained others on how to design software solutions to comply with security and privacy requirements.
 E. None of the above.
9. Design software solutions to integrate and be compatible with other systems and/or database architecture.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have designed software solutions to integrate and be compatible with another system and/or database architecture.
 C. I have designed software solutions to integrate and be compatible with multiple systems and/or database architecture.
 D. I have advised or trained others on how to design software solutions to integrate and be compatible with other systems and/or database architecture.
 E. None of the above.
10. Develop procedural instructions (e.g., job aids, standard operating procedures) for the implementation and
operation of new or revised applications.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have assisted a team in preparing standard installation, maintenance, and recovery instructions and processes in preparation for implementing new or revised applications.
 C. I have created installation, maintenance, and recovery instructions and processes in preparation for implementing new or revised applications.
 D. I have advised or trained others on creating installation, maintenance, and recovery instructions and processes in preparation for implementing new or revised applications.
 E. None of the above.
11. Select the response that best represents your level of knowledge of software development methodologies (e.g., Agile, Systems Development Life-Cycle, Joint Application Development).

 A. I have a general understanding of software development terminology.
 B. I understand at least one method of software development and I am able to explain the framework to others.
 C. I can determine which method of software development is most appropriate for a given situation.
 D. None of the above.
12. Evaluate application changes to ensure compliance with organizational needs and/or requirements.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have examined application changes and performed pre-defined maintenance or upgrades.
 C. I have examined application changes and suggested alternatives to better align application use with organizational needs and/or requirements.
 D. None of the above.
13. Evaluate IT requirements to determine if configuration upgrades or modifications are needed.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have recommended IT configuration changes based on a review of requirements.
 C. I have served on a review board to evaluate and/or adjudicate recommended configuration upgrades or modifications.
 D. I have led a review board to evaluate and/or adjudicate recommended configuration upgrades or modifications.
 E. None of the above.
14. Manage IT configurations in compliance with security requirements (e.g., Security Technical Implementation Guide [STIG], Security Requirement Guide [SRG]) to mitigate potential vulnerabilities and/or risks.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have implemented IT configurations to mitigate potential vulnerabilities and/or risks.
 C. I have managed IT configurations of a single program or application to mitigate potential vulnerabilities and/or risks.
 D. I have managed IT configurations of a portfolio of programs or applications to mitigate potential vulnerabilities and/or risks.
 E. None of the above.
15. Which of the following stages of the IT configuration management process do you have experience with? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Creating a formal planning document.
 B. Identifying baselines.
 C. Defining system or subsystem architecture or components.
 D. Evaluating change requests and proposals.
 E. Recording and reporting Configurable Items (CI) descriptions.
 F. Recording and reporting deviations from IT baselines.
 G. Reviewing CI for compliance with requirements and baselines
 H. Auditing configuration documentation
 I. Developing change management processes.
 J. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
16. Coordinate the delivery of IT customer support solutions (e.g., delivery of new hardware, software upgrades, system maintenance) to minimize interruption to service operations.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have participated in service roll-outs for customer support by coordinating with the customer and/or IT Team leadership.
 C. I have led the coordination effort to deliver approved service roll-outs for customer support.
 D. None of the above.
17. Develop or update a checklist and/or knowledge base to facilitate incident resolution.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have used a checklist or knowledge base to resolve an incident.
 C. I have updated a checklist or knowledge base informed by personal experience or analysis.
 D. I have developed a new checklist or knowledge base informed by personal experience or analysis.
 E. None of the above.
18. Develop plans for remedying recurring IT customer issues (e.g., software bugs, performance limitation, service gap).

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have identified a recurring IT customer issue requiring the development of a resolution.
 C. I have gathered data and analyzed the information to determine underlying causes on a recurring IT customer issue, and have suggested a plan to my supervisor for resolution.
 D. I have developed, validated, and/or implemented a plan for remedying a recurring IT customer issue.
 E. None of the above.
19. Install software in response to a customer need.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have installed a customer recommended or selected software.
 C. I have worked with a customer to identify and install a needed software.
 D. I have deployed software on an enterprise level.
 E. None of the above.
20. Resolve problems (e.g., hardware, software, user training) in response to customer incidents.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have identified customer problems for a colleague or supervisor to resolve.
 C. I have diagnosed, resolved, and documented recurring customer problems.
 D. I have diagnosed, resolved, and documented unprecedented customer problems where guidance did not exist.
 E. I have performed trend analysis and identified root causes to prevent further incidents.
 F. None of the above.
21. Use a ticketing system (e.g., Information Technology Service Management) or commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) solution to manage customer reported incidents (e.g., problem tracking, resolution).

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have logged customer reported incidents into a ticketing system.
 C. I have trained others in the use of a ticketing system to manage customer reported incidents.
 D. I have modified tickets to clarify entries and/or routing.
 E. I have used quality control procedures or advanced analytics (e.g., trend analysis, pattern detection) to manage and/or improve a ticketing system.
 F. I have developed local processes or procedures to enhance the use of the ticketing system to ensure quality and accuracy of data.
 G. None of the above
22. Assess or mitigate IT project or program risk (e.g., cost, schedule, performance) to ensure program feasibility.

 A. I have completed training or education on IT project or program risk management.
 B. I have assessed IT project or program risk on the job under the supervision of a more senior-level employee.
 C. I have independently assessed and mitigated IT project or program risk on the job.
 D. I have led the coordination of an IT project or program risk assessment and mitigation.
 E. None of the above.
23. Communicate IT system cybersecurity risk (e.g., potential threats, system vulnerabilities) to organizational stakeholders.

 A. I have described IT system cybersecurity risk areas (e.g., potential threats, system vulnerabilities) to colleagues or peers.
 B. I have presented the results of a cybersecurity risk assessment or evaluation to my supervisor.
 C. I have recommended countermeasures to management to mitigate IT system cybersecurity risks.
 D. I have coordinated the implementation of risk countermeasures on an IT system with the appropriate cybersecurity personnel.
 E. None of the above.
24. Evaluate IT system security controls (e.g., protection of information, systems, processes) to mitigate risk.

 A. I have received training or experience in evaluating security controls of IT systems.
 B. I have reviewed security controls of an IT system to ensure they comply with a security requirements checklist.
 C. I have recommended ways to enhance security controls of an IT system that were implemented by an organization to mitigate risk.
 D. None of the above.
25. Select the response that best represents your level of knowledge of IT security patching.

 A. I have a general understanding of the purpose of IT security patching.
 B. I can explain the potential impacts of IT security patching to others.
 C. I can coordinate the implementation and testing of IT security patches on systems.
 D. None of the above.
26. Select the response that best represents your level of knowledge of Security Requirements Guides (SRG) or Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIG).

 A. I have a general understanding of the purpose of a SRG or STIG.
 B. I can determine if a SRG or STIG is applicable to a particular IT system.
 C. I can explain the potential impacts of SRG or STIG implementation to others.
 D. None of the above.
27. Which of the following steps of an IT system risk assessment have you conducted to mitigate or remediate risk? (Select all that apply.)

 A. I have characterized an IT system by collecting system-related information (e.g., system interfaces, functional requirements) to define the scope of a risk assessment effort.
 B. I have identified potential threats to an IT system.
 C. I have assessed potential vulnerabilities of an IT system.
 D. I have determined the level of risk associated with a particular system threat-vulnerability combination.
 E. I have recommended solutions or countermeasures to reduce an IT system?s level of risk.
 F. I have conducted a cost-benefit and/or cost avoidance analysis on recommendations for reducing an IT system?s level of risk.
 G. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
28. Develop an IT system design for implementation.

 A. I have completed training or education on IT system design.
 B. I have developed part of an IT system design under supervision.
 C. I have developed an IT system design without supervision.
 D. I have supervised the development of an IT system design.
 E. I have developed a system design that serves as a reference for other system designs.
 F. None of the above.
29. Eliminate duplicate capabilities from an organization's existing IT systems in order to maximize system efficiency.

 A. I have completed training or education on how to evaluate IT system efficiencies.
 B. I have analyzed existing IT system capabilities to determine if a system was duplicating efforts.
 C. I have analyzed existing IT system capabilities and coordinated changes to maximize system efficiency.
 D. I have supervised the work of others who analyzed existing IT system capabilities to maximize system efficiency.
 E. None of the above.
30. Prepare gap analysis between a current IT system and compliancy with the targeted enterprise architecture framework to develop plans for transition.

 A. I have completed training or education on how to conduct an IT system compliancy gap analysis.
 B. I have prepared a gap analysis between a current IT system and compliancy with the targeted enterprise architecture framework and provided results to a supervisor or a senior-level employee for review.
 C. I have developed plans for transitioning the current state of an IT system to comply with the targeted enterprise architecture framework.
 D. I have supervised the transition of an IT system to comply with the targeted enterprise architecture framework.
 E. None of the above.
31. Select the response that best represents the level of recognition of your knowledge of enterprise architecture principles regarding the alignment of IT strategy with organizational goals.

 A. I am recognized and regularly consulted by my colleagues for my expertise in aligning IT strategy with organizational goals.
 B. I am recognized and regularly consulted by my supervisor for my expertise in aligning IT strategy with organizational goals.
 C. I am recognized and regularly consulted by others throughout my organization for my expertise in aligning IT strategy with organizational goals.
 D. None of the above.
32. Select the response that best represents your knowledge of IT system data modeling.

 A. I can define basic data modeling terms (e.g., attribute, domain, entity).
 B. I can explain standard data modeling techniques.
 C. I can select the appropriate data model for a situation.
 D. I can identify the relationships between different data models.
 E. None of the above.
33. Which of the following actions have you carried out to integrate IT programs or services into established enterprise architecture core (i.e., integration of data with business processes) to support organizational initiatives? (Select all that apply.)

 A. I have configured an IT program or service to fit into the enterprise architecture operational pipeline.
 B. I have tested or validated an IT program or service to ensure it fits into the enterprise architecture operational pipeline.
 C. I have diagnosed an interoperability issue with an IT program or service in the enterprise architecture operational pipeline.
 D. I have resolved interoperability issues between systems in the enterprise architecture operational pipeline.
 E. I have led a team that integrated IT programs or services into established enterprise architecture core.
 F. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
34. Analyze technical requirements for applications to determine optimal IT configurations (e.g., hardware, software, network medium).

 A. I have completed training or education on how to analyze technical requirements for applications to determine optimal IT configurations.
 B. I have gathered the technical requirements for applications for a supervisor or senior- level employee to determine optimal IT configurations.
 C. I have independently analyzed technical requirements for applications to determine optimal IT configurations.
 D. I have advised or trained others on how to analyze technical requirements for applications to determine optimal IT configurations.
 E. None of the above.
35. Evaluate the design of an existing IT system to ensure the system operates in accordance with stakeholder requirements.

 A. I have completed training or education on how to evaluate an IT systems design to ensure the system operates in accordance with stakeholder requirements.
 B. I have assisted a colleague or senior-level employee who was evaluating an IT systems design to ensure the system operated in accordance with stakeholder requirements.
 C. I have independently evaluated an IT systems design to ensure the system operated in accordance with stakeholder requirements. My work required review by a supervisor or senior- level employee.
 D. I have independently evaluated an IT systems design to ensure the system operated in accordance with stakeholder requirements. My work did not require review by a supervisor or senior-level employee.
 E. I have monitored or supervised others evaluating an IT systems design to ensure the system operated in accordance with stakeholder requirements.
 F. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
36. I have analyzed IT requirements to ensure the requirements were: (Select all that apply.)

 A. Compatible with new or existing systems
 B. Complete and/or clearly defined
 C. Compliant with industry regulations
 D. Compliant with agency or organizational regulations
 E. Compliant with government regulations (e.g., 508, Sarbanes-Oxley)
 F. Cost-effective for the organization
 G. Testable
 H. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
37. I have performed the following steps in the IT systems lifecycle. (Select all that apply.)

 A. Analysis
 B. Design
 C. Testing
 D. Implementation
 E. Maintenance or evaluation
 F. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
38. Identify a new IT system for an organization to meet stakeholder requirements.

 A. I have completed training or education on how to identify IT systems to meet stakeholder requirements.
 B. I have researched IT systems for an organization to meet stakeholder requirements.
 C. I have recommended a new IT system for an organization that was implemented to meet stakeholder requirements.
 D. I have trained others in evaluating IT systems for an organization to determine if the systems meet stakeholder requirements.
 E. None of the above.
39. Which of the following methods have you used to gather IT system requirements from stakeholders? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Benchmarking
 B. Facilitated (focus group) sessions.
 C. Joint application development sessions
 D. One-on-one meetings or interviews
 E. Group interviews
 F. Questionnaires
 G. Prototyping
 H. Use case analysis
 I. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
40. Which of the following types of system requirements have you analyzed to determine if they met stakeholder needs? (Select all that apply.)

 A. System function or purpose
 B. Hardware specifications
 C. Software specifications
 D. Performance specifications
 E. Internal/external system interface requirements
 F. User interface, including user manuals.
 G. Continuity requirements
 H. Data records management requirements
 I. Security requirements
 J. Scalability requirements
 K. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
41. From the list below, select the response which corresponds to the highest level of education you have achieved. Education claimed may be verified upon selection. If you do not possess or unable to provide proof of education claimed, you may be found ineligible.

 A. Less than 2 Years of College
 B. Associate?s Degree OR Two Years College (successfully completed at least 60 semester or 90 quarter hours)
 C. Bachelor?s Degree OR Four Years College (successfully completed at least 120 semester or 180 quarter hours)
 D. Master?s Degree OR Above
42. Have you received an honorary or monetary award from your employer (government civilian, military, or private sector) during the last 3 years?

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected