Position Title
Medical Instrument Technician-Polysomnography
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTD-12795266-25-DM Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 11, 2025 to Wednesday, September 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Medical Instrument Technician (Polysomnography) position with the VA Boston healthcare System at the Edith Norse Rogers Memorial VA Hospital in Bedford, MA. We will evaluate your resume and responses to this questionnaire to determine if you have the basic qualifications for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be fully supported by your resume and supporting documents.
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of the position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.
INSTRUCTIONS: Grandfathering Provision. To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements. Grandfathering Provision: A Medical Instrument Technician employed in VHA on the effective date of the qualification standard 06/07/2012 are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education and licensure/certification/registration that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. For employees who did not meet all the basic requirements in this standard may not be promoted beyond the full performance level (GS-0649-08) or be newly placed in supervisory or managerial positions until meeting the full qualification requirements.
Basic Qualifications:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. English Language Proficiency: Medical Instrument Technicians must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with VA Handbook chapter 2, section D, paragraph 5a.

Are you proficient in English?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Grade Level Determinations:
2. GS-08: Medical Instrument Technician (Polysomnography) 

Do you posses at least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the positions to be filled? This would be experience which provided knowledge of the more complex procedures as well as knowledge of the uncommon and/or rare sleep disorders.

In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Advanced knowledge or the International Classification of Sleep Disorders and the ability to recognize uncommon and/or rare sleep disorders.
Ability to summarize and report polysomnographic data in narrative form.
Knowledge of event characteristics (e.g., respiratory, cardiac, sleep stage, seizures, etc.) and ability to take appropriate action.
Ability to provide briefings and orientation to hospital staff including physicians.
 A. Yes, I meet this requirement.
 B. Yes, I am a current VHA Employee in this occupation that is covered under the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard.
 C. No, I do not meet this requirement.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. GS-9: Medical Instrument Technologist (Polysomnography):

Experience: At least one (1) year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level (GS-8) or equivalent, which is directly related to the duties of the position. This experience demonstrates possession of knowledge required to provide all aspects of polysomnography services.

In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following technical GS-9 Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):

Knowledge of the more complex examination and treatment procedures and techniques in order to provide training and supervision in these procedures, to evaluate and initiate performance improvement projects, and to write policies, procedures, and protocols, that pertain to Polysomnography.
Knowledge of JCAHO and other regulatory requirements.
Ability to communicate effectively and professionally with employees at varying grade levels.

Do you meet the experience and are you able to demonstrate the KSAs and/or possess the ability to acquire the KSAs listed above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Certification: Registration by the Board of Registered Polysomnographic Technologists (BRPT) is highly desirable.

Please note: If you have this certification, you must submit a copy of your certification with you application package.

Do you have the BRPT certification?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Please provide your certification information. If you are not certified, indicate N/A.
Name on certification:
Issuing entity:
Complete certification/ID number:
Expiration date:

 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected