Position Title
Health Benefits Assistant
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSS-12814401-26-CNG Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 10, 2025 to Friday, October 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Leavenworth, KS
 B. Topeka, KS


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Health Benefits Assistant (OA) position at the VA Eastern Kansas Health Care System. The assessment part of the questionnaire includes questions about basic requirements, minimum qualifications, and KSAs(knowledge, skills and abilities) related to this position. For each following questions, please choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO ANY OF THESE QUESTIONS MAY RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING.


1.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of the Health Benefits Assistant position.

From the responses below, please select the response which best reflects your experience for this position at the GS-05 level.

 EXPERIENCE: I possess one (1) full year of specialized experience that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform the duties of this position successfully and that is equivalent to at least the GS-04 level in the Federal service. Examples of specialized experience would include: Experience using computer systems and databases with multiple automated programs and software such as Microsoft Word, Excel, Access and Power Point; Ability to review documents for accuracy; experience providing clerical support in a medical environment.
 EDUCATION: Successfully completed four (4) years above the high school level in any field for which high school graduation or the equivalent is the normal prerequisite. (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED) This education must have been obtained in an accredited business, secretarial or technical school, junior college, college or university. One year of full-time academic study is defined as 30 semester hours, 45 quarter hours, or the equivalent in a college or university, or at least 20 hours of classroom instruction per week for approximately 36 weeks in a business, secretarial, or technical school.
 COMBINATION: Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at the GS-05 level. To calculate, first identify the percentage of required education you have earned (when substituting, you cannot use the first 60 semester hours that you earned). Then identify the percentage of required experience you possess. Add the two
 The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify at the GS-05. For example, an applicant who has 9 semester hours of graduate level education (i.e. 50% of graduate education required) and 6 months of creditable specialized experience (i.e. 50% of the required experience) would equal 100% of the required experience for the
 NONE OF THE ABOVE: My experience/education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of the Health Benefits Assistant position.

From the responses below, please select the response which best reflects your experience for this position at the GS-06 level.

 EXPERIENCE: I possess one (1) full year of specialized experience that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform the duties of this position successfully and that is equivalent to at least the GS-05 level in the Federal service. Examples of specialized experience would include: Experience using computer systems and databases with multiple automated programs and software such as Microsoft Word, Excel, Access and Power Point; Ability to review documents for accuracy; experience providing clerical support in a medical environment.
 NONE OF THE ABOVE: My experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.


3.
TYPING PROFICIENCY: Choose the one (1) statement below that best describes your typing and office automation abilities.

 I type at least 40 words per minute with no more than three errors based on a 5 minute sample.
 I type less than 40 words per minute.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙