Position Title
MEDICAL RECORDS TECHNICIAN (Coder) In/Out
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZP-12814649-26-AH Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 10, 2025 to Wednesday, December 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements for appointment as a Medical Record Technician (MRT-Coder) in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). Please select the best response.


1.
To meet basic requirements as an MRT Coder in the VHA you must have experience, education, or a combination of both. Select the response that best describes your ability to meet the basic requirements. (The entry level grade of an MRT Coder is a GS-4).

 I possess at least one (1) year of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, anatomy, physiology, pathophysiology, medical coding, and the structure and format of health records.
 I possess an associate degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education with a major field of study in health information technology/health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, medical coding and introduction to health records). Transcripts Required.
 I have completed an AHIMA approved coding program or other intense coding training program of approximately one year or more that included courses in anatomy and physiology, medical terminology, basic ICD diagnostic/procedural, and basic CPT coding. The training program must have led to eligibility for coding certification/certification examination and the sponsoring academic institution must have been accredited by a national U.S. Department of Education accreditor, or comparable international accrediting authority at the time the program was completed. Transcripts Required
 Equivalent combinations of creditable experience and education are qualifying for meeting the basic requirements. The following education/training substitutions are appropriate for combining education and creditable experience. The following educational/training substitutions are appropriate for combining education and experience: (a) Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, general understanding of medical coding and the health record, and one year above high school with a minimum of 6 semester hours of health information technology courses. (b) Successful completion of a course of medical technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or hospital training obtained in a training program given by the Armed Forces or the U.S. Maritime Service under close medical and professional supervision may be substituted on a month-for-month basis for up to six months of experience provided the training program included courses in anatomy, physiology, and health record techniques and procedures. Also, requires six additional months of creditable experience that is paid or non-paid employment equivalent to MRT Coder. Transcripts Required.
 I do not have the experience and/or education as described in any of the above statements.


This section will be used to determine if you possess the certification requirement for appointment as a Medical Record Technician (MRT-Coder) in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). Please select the best response.


2.
I possess the following certification which is required for appointment or reassignment to MRT (Coder) positions in the GS-0675 series in VHA. Copy of certification required.

 Apprentice/Associate Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC.
 Mastery Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC.
 Clinical Documentation Improvement Certification through AHIMA or ACDIS.
 I do not have the certification as described in any of the above statements.


Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions


3.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 USC 7402 (d), 7407 (d)?

 Yes
 No


This section will be used to determine the grade level that you qualify for as an MRT (Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient). Candidates can qualify for this position at the GS-4 to GS-8 grade level based on the qualify of the creditable experience and/or education. Note: Evidence of experience, must be supported by detailed documentation of duties performed in positions held. Please provide such documentation on your application or resume. Also, please provide work experience information such as hours per week and starting/ending dates of employment (month and year format) to establish one (1) full year of experience.


4.
GS-4 Level Experience or Education: None beyond the basic requirement as described in question 1 above.

 Yes
 No


5.
GS-5 level Experience or Education: I possess 1 year of creditable experience comparable to the next lower grade level (GS-4) or successful completion of a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, with a major field of study in health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 24 semester hours in heath information management or technology. In addition demonstrate the following KSAs: Ability to utilize health information technology and various office software products used in MRT (Coder) positions (e.g., the electronic health record, coding and abstracting software, etc.); ability to navigate through and abstract pertinent information from health records; knowledge of the ICD CM, PCS Official Conventions and Guidelines for Coding and Reporting, and CPT guidelines; ability to apply knowledge of medical terminology, human anatomy/physiology, and disease processes to accurately assign codes to inpatient and outpatient episodes of care based on health record documentation; knowledge of the Joint Commission requirements, CMS, and/or health record documentation guidelines; and ability to manage priorities and coordinate work to complete duties within required timeframes, and the ability to follow-up on pending issues. Transcripts Required.

 Yes
 No


6.
GS-6 level Experience: I possess at least one full year of creditable experience as an MRT (Coder - Outpatient and Inpatient) to the next lower level (GS-5). Experience must demonstrate all of the following KSAs: Ability to analyze the health record to identify all pertinent diagnoses and procedures for coding and to evaluate the adequacy of the documentation; ability to determine whether health records contain sufficient information for regulatory requirements, are acceptable as legal documents, are adequate for continuity of patient care, and support the assigned codes. This includes the ability to take appropriate actions in health record contents are not complete, accurate, timely, and/or reliable; ability to apply laws and regulations on the confidentiality of health information (e.g., Privacy Act, Freedom of Information Act, and HIPAA); ability to accurately apply the ICD CM, PCS Official Conventions and Guidelines for Coding and Reporting, and CPT Guidelines to various coding scenarios; comprehensive knowledge of current classification systems, such as ICD CM, PCS, CPT, HCPCS, and skill in applying classifications to both inpatient and outpatient records based on health record documentation; and knowledge of complication or comorbidity/major complication or comorbidity (CC/MCC) and POA indictors to obtain correct MS-DRG. NOTE: One (1) year of post bachelor's degree experience or two (2) years of post-basic experience/education required to qualify at this grade level.

 Yes
 No


7.
GS-7 level Experience: I possess at least one full year of experience as an MRT (Coder - Outpatient and Inpatient) equivalent to the next lower level (GS-6). Experience must demonstrate all of the following KSAs: Skill in applying current coding classifications to a variety of inpatient and outpatient specialty care areas to accurately reflect service and care provided based on documentation in the health record; ability to communicate with clinical staff for specific coding and documentation issues such as recording inpatient and outpatient diagnoses and procedures, the correct sequencing of diagnoses and/or procedures, and the relationship between health care documentation and code assignment; ability to research and solve coding and documentation related issues; and skill in reviewing and correcting system or processing errors and ensuring all assigned work is completed; and ability to abstract, assign, and sequence codes, including complication or comorbidity/major complication or comorbidity (CC/MCC), and POA indictors to obtain correct MS-DRG. NOTE: Two (2) years of post bachelor's degree experience or three (3) years of post-basic experience/education required to qualify at this grade level.

 Yes
 No


8.
GS-8 level Experience: I possess at least one full year of creditable experience as an MRT (Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient) equivalent to the next lower level (GS-7). Experience must demonstrate all of the following KSAs: Ability to analyze the medical record to identify all pertinent diagnoses and procedures for coding, and to evaluate the adequacy of the documentation. This includes the ability to read and understand the content of the medical record, the terminology, the significance of the comments, and the disease process/pathophysiology of the patient; ability to accurately perform the full scope of outpatient coding, including ambulatory surgical cases, diagnostic studies and procedures, and outpatient encounters, and/or inpatient coding, including inpatient discharges, surgical cases, diagnostic studies and procedures, and inpatient professional fees; and skill in interpreting and adapting health information guidelines and ability to use judgment in completing assignments using incomplete or inadequate guidelines. A minimum of three (3) years of coding experience in the occupation as an MRT (Coder - Outpatient and Inpatient) is required to qualify at this grade level. Three (3) years of post-bachelor's degree experience or four (4) years of post-basic experience/education required to qualify at this grade level.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙