Position Title
Nurse
Agency
Indian Health Service
Announcement Number
IHS-26-HQ-12819860-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 17, 2025 to Friday, January 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a recipient of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (IHCIA) Health Profession Scholarship authorized under Public Law 94-437?
If yes, confirm:
You have completed or will be completing the requirements of the approved health profession program within the established timeframe
Meet all eligibility criteria
Entitled to a one-time priority referral/selection to fulfill their obligation to provide public service
You will be required to submit a copy of your transcripts. If you are pending completion of a health profession degree submit a copy of your transcripts and written proof from the education institution's registrar which provides the date for completing the professional program.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an American Indian/Alaska Native who is enrolled in a federally recognized tribe as defined by the Secretary of Interior? The Indian Health Service gives qualified American Indian/Alaska Natives preference when filling vacancies in accordance with the Indian Preference Act of 1934 (Title 25, USC, Section 472), with approved exceptions.

If eligible, submit a copy of your Bureau of Indian Affairs Form 4432, "Verification of Indian preference for employment in the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Indian Health Service," that has been completed by authorized tribal or BIA Officials. For more information, review the IHS Indian Preference guidelines: http://www.ihs.gov/jobs/permanentDocs/indianpreference.pdf.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


6.
Political, Schedule C, Non-career SES Appointee: In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this vacancy announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.

A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an Assistant position to a top-level Federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)). A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations. A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director, OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 5 location(s).
Chinle, AZ
Cibecue, AZ
Kayenta, AZ
Kayenta, AZ
McNary, AZ
Parker, AZ
Peach Springs, AZ
Phoenix, AZ
Pinon, AZ
Polacca, AZ
Red Mesa, AZ
Rock Point, AZ
Supai, AZ
Tonalea, AZ
Tsaile, AZ
Whiteriver, AZ
Havasu Lake, CA
Riverside, CA
Winterhaven, CA
Towaoc, CO
Fort Hall, ID
Lawrence, KS
Mashpee, MA
Cass Lake, MN
Naytahwaush, MN
Ogema, MN
Ponemah, MN
Ponsford, MN
Redlake, MN
Babb, MT
Browning, MT
Crow Agency, MT
Harlem, MT
Hays, MT
Heart Butte, MT
Lame Deer, MT
Lodge Grass, MT
Poplar, MT
Pryor, MT
Wolf Point, MT
Elko, NV
Moapa, NV
Albuquerque, NM
Bernalillo, NM
Bloomfield, NM
Cochiti Pueblo, NM
Crownpoint, NM
Cuba, NM
Dulce, NM
Espanola, NM
Gallup, NM
Mescalero, NM
San Felipe Pueblo, NM
Sanostee, NM
Santa Fe, NM
Santa Fe, NM
Shiprock, NM
Shiprock, NM
Taos, NM
Thoreau, NM
Tohatchi, NM
Zia Indian Reservation, NM
Zuni, NM
Lockport, NY
Manlius, NY
Cherokee, NC
Belcourt, ND
Cannon Ball, ND
Fort Yates, ND
Anadarko, OK
Carnegie, OK
Clinton, OK
El Reno, OK
Lawton, OK
Pawnee, OK
Watonga, OK
Wewoka, OK
Salem, OR
Warm Springs, OR
Rock Hill, SC
Bullhead, SD
Eagle Butte, SD
Kyle, SD
Lower Brule, SD
Manderson, SD
Martin, SD
McLaughlin, SD
Pine Ridge, SD
Rosebud, SD
Sisseton, SD
Wagner, SD
Wanblee, SD
Fort Duchesne, UT
Charles City, VA
Indian Neck, VA
Richmond, VA
Suffolk, VA
Forks, WA
Toppenish, WA
Wapato, WA
Fort Washakie, WY


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7


3.
Please select availability
 A. Full-Time
 B. Part-Time
 C. Intermittent (As Needed basis)


4.
Please select which department(s) you would like to be considered for.
 A. Outpatient
 B. Inpatient


5.
This position is covered by Public Law 101-630, the Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Protection Act (25 United States Code Chapter 34) requiring contact or control over Indian children. Due to this law, the agency must ensure that persons hired for these positions have not been arrested for or charged with certain crimes involving a child. Responding yes to this question can make you ineligible for employment in this position. You will be contacted if additional information is required. Have you ever been arrested for or charged with a crime involving a child?
 Yes
 No


6.
This position is covered by Public Law 101-630, the Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Protection Act (25 United States Code Chapter 34) requiring contact or control over Indian children. Due to this law, the agency must ensure that persons hired for these positions have not been found guilty of or pleaded nolo contendere or guilty to certain crimes against persons or offenses committed against children. Responding yes to this question makes you ineligible for employment in this position. You will be contacted if additional information is required. Have you ever been found guilty of, or entered a plea of nolo contendere (no contest) or guilty to, any felonious offense, or any two or more misdemeanor offenses under federal, state, or tribal law involving crimes of violence; sexual assault, molestation, exploitation, contact or prostitution; or crimes against persons; or offenses committed against children?
 Yes
 No


7.
I certify that (1) my responses to questions one and two are made under penalty of perjury, which is punishable by fine under title 18 of the United States Code, or imprisonment of not more than five years, or both; and (2) I have received notice that a criminal check will be conducted. I understand my right to obtain a copy of any criminal history report made available to the Indian Health Service and my right to challenge the accuracy and completeness of any information contained in the report.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this Nurse (Inpatient Outpatient) position with the Indian Health Service. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire. SECTION I. MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS AND FACTORS.


1.
Basic Requirements - Education
In order to qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements for a nurse position. Select the response that most closely and accurately describes your background which demonstrates how you meet the education requirements. Select only one response and do not leave blank. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from Foreign Nursing School: Official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required for individuals who graduated from foreign nursing schools.
 I have successfully completed a graduate or higher level degree, bachelor’s degree, associate degree, or diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program. (You must provide copy of transcripts with your resume).
 I am currently enrolled in a professional nursing program and expect to complete the qualifying education within 9 months. (You must provide documentation from the professional program to support your expected completion date.)
 I do not have the education as described above.


2.
Basic Requirements - Licensure
In order to qualify for this position, applicants must have passed the National Council Licensure Examination. In addition, they must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. Select the response that most closely and accurately describes your background which demonstrates how you meet the Licensure requirements. Select only one response and do not leave blank.
 I have passed the National Council Licensure Examination AND I possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. (You must provide a copy of your license and/or registration along with your resume).
 I do not have the professional registration.


3.
Basic Requirements for the GS-0610-5
From the descriptions below, select the response that best describes your experience which demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GS-05.
 I possess a diploma or associate degree in professional nursing AND 1 full year of professional nursing experience.
 I possess a Bachelor of Science degree in Nursing.
 I do not have the education and/or experience as described in the above statements.


4.
Basic Requirements for the GS-0610-7
From the descriptions below, select the response that best describes your experience which demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GS-07.
 I possess a Bachelor of Science degree in Nursing and eligibility under the Superior Academic Achievement provision (https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/classification-qualifications/general-schedule-qualification-policies/#url=General-Policies).
 I possess a Bachelor of Science degree in Nursing and at least one full year of professional nursing experience (equivalent to the GS-5 grade level). Examples of experience include: Provides direct professional nursing care to patients, reviewing history of medical care, assessing current health conditions and evaluating ability of patient to self-care. Provide clinical and procedural nursing interventions administering medication in accordance with the plan of care and assisting providers with procedures. Participating in patient centered medical home by providing care coordination based on patient needs, assisting patient in establishing goals and providing education to patient and families to improve their health outcomes. Possession of a bachelor's degree in Nursing and eligibility under the Superior Academic Achievement provision; OR, Possession of a diploma or associate degree in professional nursing and two full years of professional nursing experience; OR, Completion of at least one full year of graduate education in a professional nursing educational program.
 I possess a diploma or associate degree in professional nursing and two full years of professional nursing experience. Examples of experience include:Provides direct professional nursing care to patients, reviewing history of medical care, assessing current health conditions and evaluating ability of patient to self-care. Provide clinical and procedural nursing interventions administering medication in accordance with the plan of care and assisting providers with procedures. Participating in patient centered medical home by providing care coordination based on patient needs, assisting patient in establishing goals and providing education to patient and families to improve their health outcomes. ; Possession of a diploma or associate degree in professional nursing and two full years of professional nursing experience; OR, Completion of at least one full year of graduate education in a professional nursing educational program.
 I have completed at least one full year of graduate education in a professional nursing educational program.
 I do not have the education and/or experience as described in the above statements.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


SECTION II. CERTIFICATION OF INFORMATION ACCURACY As previously explained, your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Certification of Information Accuracy If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙