Position Title
Program Manager
Agency
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
Announcement Number
25-TTB-12796802 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 9, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency covered by an OPM Interchange agreement that conveys noncompetitive eligibility?

For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=InterchangeAgreementsWithOtherMeritSystems

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following merit promotion categories?
Current Federal civilian employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current Excepted service employee covered by an Interchange Agreement
Former Federal employee with Reinstatement eligibility
Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA)
Current Federal employee serving on a VRA appointment
Land Management Employee eligible under Public Law 114-47
Other competitive category not listed above (you must submit proof of eligibility)
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you eligible to be appointed under the Military Spouse Noncompetitive Appointing Authority based on any of the following categories?
You are the spouse of an active duty member of the Armed Forces.
You are the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs.
You are the widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status, and you have not re-married.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources. (https://www.usajobs.gov/Veterans)

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a former federal employee that has been separated for at least one full year and is eligible to be non-competitively reinstated to a higher grade or full-performance level than which you left federal employment?(Note: you MUST provide:  1) a copy of your separation SF-50 (the "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2"); AND 2) the last performance appraisal you received from your federal employment which shows at least a fully successful rating.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Do you currently hold (or have you previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you eligible under any other miscellaneous appointing authority not listed thus far, such as (but not all inclusive to):
Postal Career Service Employee;
Postal Rate Commission Employee;
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; 
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee; or 
Foreign overseas employee or eligible family member of former overseas employee
 
For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=MiscellaneousAuthoritiesNotRegulated .  
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

For more information on Foreign overseas employment please review the following: https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#NontemporaryForeignService or https://www.state.gov/global-community-liaison-office/family-member-employment/family-member-employment-in-the-d-c-area/non-competitive-eligibility-nce/#NCE5




 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you eligible for consideration as a Peace Corps, VISTA, or Action volunteer?  If you select this option, you are required to provide acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility by submitting proof of employment from the appropriate agency with your completed application.

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other
3. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
5. Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.
6. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
For the GS-15, you must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes:

- Providing authoritative guidance for technical and administrative operations; AND
- Serving as a project leader or program coordinator in executing the daily responsibilities of facilities and support services programs.
1. Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 A. I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-14 level as described above.
 B. I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.
2. Choose the statement(s) that accurately describe your experience working with Federal travel.
 A. I have a working knowledge of Concur or the Department of Defense Travel System.
 B. I have prepared or reviewed travel authorizations and vouchers (electronically or manually) and am familiar with the forms and their requirements.
 C. I have provided guidance to travelers engaged in foreign travel (for example, obtaining a Passport and Visa).
 D. I have expert knowledge of the Federal Travel Regulations or the DOD Travel Regulations.
 E. I have a comprehensive understanding of the procedures necessary to prepare passport and visa applications and to how to obtain these documents.
 F. None of the above.
3. Which of the following areas do you have experience in overseeing a support services program?
 A. Parking Management
 B. Public Transportation Incentive Program
 C. Mail and Postage Management
 D. Space Allocation and Management
 E. Building and Property Management
 F. Occupational Health Oversight and Accreditation
 G. I have not performed any of the above tasks.
4. Which of the following most accurately reflects your level of experience related to facilities management programs or projects?
 A. I have been a project manager with responsibility for carrying out one or more facilities management programs/projects (over one year). Projects were multi-faceted and involved varied workload and critical deadlines.
 B. I have been a project or team leader with responsibility for carrying out one or more facilities management programs/projects that have spanned the course of a few months up to one year. Projects were multi-faceted and involved varied workload and critical deadlines.
 C. I have been a team member assigned to carry out components of a facilities management programs/projects.
 D. I have not performed any of the above tasks.
5. Which of the following most accurately reflects your level of experience related to occupational safety and health programs, environmental protection, and/or energy conservation projects?
 A. I have been a project manager with responsibility for carrying out one or more occupational safety and health programs, environmental protection, and/or energy conservation projects (over one year). Projects were multi-faceted and involved varied workload and critical deadlines.
 B. I have been a project or team leader with responsibility for carrying out one or more occupational safety and health programs, environmental protection, and/or energy conservation project(s) that have spanned the course of a few months up to one year. Projects were multi-faceted and involved varied workload and critical deadlines.
 C. I have been a team member assigned to carry out components of an occupational safety and health programs, environmental protection, and/or energy conservation project.
 D. I have not performed any of the above tasks.
6. Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience related to supervising or managing employees.
 A. I have supervised a staff of professionals (i.e., security staff, facilities staff, management analysts, contracting officers, procurement staff, etc.), determined training needs, prepared annual performance appraisals, and provided regular performance feedback, and took disciplinary actions when necessary.
 B. I have supervised a staff of non-financial professionals, determined training needs, prepared annual performance appraisals, and provided regular performance feedback, and took disciplinary actions when necessary.
 C. I have supervised a staff with responsibility for assigning work, training, evaluating performance and preparing annual performance appraisals.
 D. I have served in a senior or team leader position where I was responsible for assigning work, providing training and guidance, and providing input on the performance of team members.
 E. I have provided input to my supervisor on the performance of team members that were assigned to a project that I led.
 F. None of the above.
7. Choose the programs below for which you have held responsibility for managing or supervising.
 A. Travel credit cards
 B. Purchase credit cards
 C. GovTrip
 D. Utilization of Invoice Processing Platform (IPP)
 E. Utilization of PRISM automated procurement systems
 F. Internal financial tracking systems
 G. Processing of interagency agreements
 H. None of the above
8. Please select the response that best describes your experience establishing objectives and performance goals, based on changing requirements.
 A. I have experience developing and monitoring programmatic and performance goals and objectives for a headquarters organization with diverse program objectives. Experience included independently establishing target dates, planning work to be accomplished and achieving goals for varied programs, which are subject to outside influence and interest.
 B. I have experience formulating programmatic and performance goals and objectives within a suborganization or program. Experience includes coordinating changes to establish target dates with higher level management and ensuring that the implementations of assigned program objectives are achieved.
 C. I have experience assuring that programs are operating in accordance with set policies, standards, and procedures and those operating goals, deadlines, and service requirements are achieved.
 D. None of the above
9. Select all the following leadership functions with which you have experience.
 A. Setting standards, expectations, and deadlines
 B. Planning work assignments to be assigned to employees
 C. Establishing work schedules and worksite assignments
 D. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees
 E. Reviewing completed work for technical accuracy
 F. Following up with employees to assure timelines in meeting milestones
 G. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems
 H. Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results
 I. Reporting progress to senior management
 J. None of the above
10. Please select the statements that best describe your experience developing and evaluating a program.
 A. Evaluate conduct and performance programs, and develop solutions to problems identified.
 B. Define, analyze and prepare data and information on the planning and execution of programs and procedures to develop recommendations.
 C. Serve on program task forces or committees as a key team member.
 D. Acquire and maintain a working knowledge of relevant laws, regulations, policies, standards or procedures.
 E. Conduct studies of program elements and work to identify problems and approve resource utilization, administrative support, and managerial effectiveness.
 F. I have not performed any of the above tasks.
11. Select the response that reflects your highest level of experience in performing analytical tasks.
 A. I have developed key program guidance.
 B. I have made written recommendations with accompanying supporting documents to existing programs.
 C. I have interpreted and applied existing guidelines and provided feedback through written recommendations.
 D. I have analyzed and reconciled data to identify discrepancies or inconsistencies.
 E. None of the above.
12. Choose the statement(s) that describe your communication/briefing skills you use as a regular part of your job to support organizational goals and Leadership.
 A. I communicate organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities in oral presentations.
 B. I explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations.
 C. I brief stakeholders outside the organization on goals and objectives.
 D. I defend an organization's position with third parties performing oversight review.
 E. None of the above.
13. I have made formal or informal presentations in the following settings:
 A. Before decision-making groups.
 B. To advisory groups.
 C. At public meetings.
 D. I do not have or do not meet any of the choices above.
14. Identify all experiences you have analyzing data and information when preparing written reports.
 A. I have analyzed data or statistics to ensure validity, reliability, and absence of bias in written documents that I prepared.
 B. I have been the primary author of briefings, articles, studies, or reports.
 C. I have reviewed reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity or expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences.
 D. I have composed explanations or justification decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations.
 E. I have analyzed trends and other information to: (a) identify issues, problems, challenges, opportunities, and options and (b) formulate strategies and recommendations that I incorporated into written reports that I prepared.
 F. None of the above.
15. Select the statements that describe your experience representing a program or office.
 A. Presented financial resource data to high level internal and external officials
 B. Represented a work group or organization at meetings
 C. Responded to telephone inquiries from colleagues, managers, or clients both inside and outside of the organization
 D. Acted as primary liaison with other organizations
 E. Facilitated meetings and conference calls with agencies and customers
 F. Answered public inquiries
 G. None of the above
16. Choose the statement that best represents your highest level of experience interacting and achieving consensus with various groups and individuals.
 A. I work with external management officials to resolve issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships.
 B. I educate, advise, or participate in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties.
 C. I work with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis.
 D. I explain agency policy and regulations and provide background of the rationale for such policies and use negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance.
 E. None of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected