Position Title
Supervisory Emergency Management Specialist (Recovery)
Agency
Federal Emergency Management Agency
Announcement Number
FEMA-TC-12789145-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, August 26, 2025 to Wednesday, September 3, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. The following three questions will be used to determine your eligibility for consideration under this job opportunity announcement. Please select YES to all eligibility question(s) which apply. If you're uncertain you meet an eligibility, we suggest answering yes. Your application will only be considered under the applicable eligibilities you have selected. If you respond NO to all eligibility questions below, your application will not be considered under this announcement. NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration for EACH selected eligibility. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will not be considered.
1. Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)

Are you a current or former FEMA Stafford Act employee eligible under the Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)?

Current and former FEMA Stafford Act employees who can document 64 or more hours of paid time, per pay period, with no breaks in service* for 78 or more consecutive pay periods since August 1, 2014, are eligible to be considered for this Merit Promotion Job Opportunity Announcement. (*Note: A "break in service" is defined as 3 or more days in non-pay status, except as allowed under 5 CFR § 315.201(b)(3)(ii) for special circumstances such as military deployment, etc.).

To verify eligibility, you must submit: 
"Notice of DRRA Eligibility" provided by OCHCO.  If you believe you're eligible, but have not received your notice, please reach out to the HR Specialist listed in the announcement.
Your FEMA SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your appointment in the excepted service under the Stafford Act.  We recommend attaching a SF-50 which indicates your highest grade and step.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Current FEMA Employee

Are you a current FEMA employee who currently holds OR has previously held a permanent (not time limited) position in the competitive service?

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your permanent competitive status.  Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions.  You may need to submit more than one SF-50.  Your SF-50 must reflect:
Block 24 - Tenure:  1 - Permanent (career) or 2 - Conditional: AND
Block 34 - Position Occupied:  1 - Competitive Service
If you previously held a career or career conditional appointment, you must provide your current SF-50 and your SF-50 which shows competitive status eligibility.
Please do not submit an award SF-50, as it might not indicate your grade level and step.  
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. FEMA Employees Only Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)
Are you a current or former FEMA employee who is considered displaced or surplus (you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction in Force)?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, your most recent performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. How did you hear about this Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) job opportunity?
 A. USAJOBS
 B. FEMA's Social Media (Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Online Job board (Indeed, Zip Recruiter, etc.)
 D. FEMA.gov Careers Website
 E. FEMA Virtual Hiring Event
 F. FEMA On-Site Hiring Event
 G. College/University/Alumni Organization
 H. FEMA Employee Referral
 I. Other
2. Are you a retiree receiving a federal annuity (either military or civilian)? Or have you accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years? (Select all that apply.)
 A. Yes, I'm receiving a military annuity.
 B. Yes, I'm receiving a civilian annuity.
 C. Yes, I've received a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
 D. No, I am not receiving a federal annuity and have not accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
3. Are you a current FEMA employee?
 A. I'm a current FEMA Local Hire Employee
 B. I'm a current FEMA Reservist Employee
 C. I'm a current FEMA CORE Employee
 D. I'm a current FEMA PFT Employee
 E. I'm a current FEMA Senior Executive Service Employee
 F. I'm not a current FEMA Employee
4. Are you currently serving, or have served within the last five years, as a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) employee in the Executive Branch?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Please provide the following information regarding your political appointment(s): 1. Official Title of Position; 2. Type of Appointment (i.e. Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career SES); 3. Name of Agency; 4. Date Position began; and 5. Date Position ended. (NOTE: If you have never held a political appointment, please enter N/A.)
6. Within the past five years, have you received a buyout or payment through the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment Authority (VSIP) when separating from a federal position?
 A. No
 B. Yes, and I understand candidates who are reemployed with the federal government within five years after receiving a buyout or payment under VSIP are required to repay the entire amount of the incentive prior to their onboarding date.
7. Did you elect to voluntarily resign or retire through the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) or Workforce Transition Program (WTP)
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?

Select "Not Applicable" if this question does not apply to you.
 A. Yes
 B. No, but I have an exemption
 C. I am a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, and have NOT registered with the Selective Service System and do NOT have an exemption.
 D. Not Applicable
2. All FEMA employees are subject to 24-hour on-call in the event of an emergency and all Federal employees may be subject to emergency deployment. In the event of an emergency deployment, travel requirements may be extensive in nature (weeks to months), with little advance notice, and may require relocation to emergency sites, some of which are quite austere. The length of deployment may last anywhere from days to months, depending upon the nature of the emergency or disaster.

Every FEMA employee is considered an emergency manager and each employee has regular and recurring emergency management responsibilities, although not every position requires routine deployment to disaster sites. Your emergency management duties may vary depending on the needs of the Agency, your particular skills, and certain personal circumstances. All positions may require irregular work hours, work at locations other than the official duty station, and may include duties other than those specified in the employee's official position description.

Are you able to meet this commitment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

In order to be hired for this position, applicants must undergo and successfully pass a background investigation. This may include a review of financial issues, such as delinquency, child support and/or tax obligations, as well as certain criminal offenses and illegal use of or possession of drugs.

Are you willing to undergo a background investigation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Your responses to the questions below will be used in the evaluation of your qualifications for this position. Your resume and application materials must support the level of experience and/or education you claim in this questionnaire, If, after a complete review of your application package, a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications, you may be rated in eligible for this position.

1. Please indicate where and when you obtained each of the specialized experience requirements listed in the Qualifications section of this Job Opportunity Announcement. Include in your response: (1) the area of specialized experience; (2) the place of employment; and, (3) the specific dates of employment the experience was gained in MM/DD/YYYY - MM/DD/YYYY format. Your response must be supported by your resume. Example: Experience in developing and delivering presentations and training; ABC Company; 10/01/2016 - 05/15/2018. (limit 200 characters)
2. Grade 13: Do you have one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the GS-12 level, as described in the vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you have experience researching and applying federal statutes, regulations, policies, and procedures pertaining to tribal relations?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Do you have experience with interagency planning and collaboration to support the long term recovery of an impacted disaster area?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. From the list below, select the response that best reflects your experience developing individual assistance program policies and guidance. Select all response that apply.
 A. I have reviewed disaster recovery program policies and guidance and advising Federal, State, and/or Local government partners.
 B. I have evaluated individual assistance program policies and guidance based on knowledge of emergency management policy and/or the Stafford Act.
 C. I have developed individual assistance program policies based on the tenets of the Stafford Act, clarifying established individual assistance policies for advising Federal, State and/or local government.
 D. I have implemented individual assistance program policies and guidance based on the tenets of the Stafford Act, revising established individual assistance policies and guidance and advising Federal, State and/or Local government.
 E. None of the above
6. Please select each technical area(s) that you have Education, Training and five or more years experience in: (Select all that apply)
 A. Project Management, Joint Operations, Multisector Liaison Experience
 B. Urban and Community Planning or Tribal Planning Experience
 C. Economics/Economic Development
 D. Housing planning/, including CDBG funding and state housing programs
 E. Public Administration: Emergency Management Leadership, City/County/State Management, Administration Staff
 F. Engineering or Infrastructure/Transportation Planning
 G. Architecture
 H. Environmental Planning
 I. FEMA/State/Community Planning or Mitigation Planning
 J. Other Related community recovery subject matter area.
7. Select all responses that reflect your experience in independently developing written documents.
 A. Comprehensive reports, briefings or meetings.
 B. Report findings and recommendations on exercise program and preparedness programs.
 C. Document plans or recommendations to improve effectiveness of programs
 D. Technical summaries.
 E. None of the above
8. From the list below, select the response(s) that best describe(s) how you communicate with individuals and organizations.
 A. I have conducted briefings with senior management to provide status updates.
 B. I have communicated with other organizations to resolve concerns.
 C. I have provided verbal instructions to execute processes.
 D. I have drafted reports.
 E. I have coordinated reports.
 F. I have submitted final reports.
 G. I have represented my organization at meetings with other agencies.
 H. None of the above.
9. From the list below, select the type(s) of customers with whom you have led briefings or update sessions.
 A. I have led briefings or update sessions with senior executives or organizational leadership.
 B. I have led briefings or update sessions with first-line managers.
 C. I have led briefings or update sessions with technical experts.
 D. I have led briefings or update sessions with co-workers.
 E. I have led briefings or update sessions with employees.
 F. I have led briefings or update sessions with the general public.
 G. I have led briefings or update sessions with elected officials.
 H. I have led briefings or update sessions with leadership from outside organizations.
 I. None of the above.
10. Select all of the following responses that describe your customer service experience:
 A. Reviewed and addressed issues
 B. Effectively and appropriately interacted with customers to understand and clarify their needs
 C. Provided customers with information on the type of assistance they needed
 D. Made appropriate referrals to other agencies as needed
 E. Provided guidance
 F. Other
 G. None of the above
11. Select all responses that describe your experience in representing your agency or organization:
 A. Represented your organization to external audiences.
 B. Represented the position of a senior management official (such as a Regional Administrator) at meetings.
 C. Conveyed or presented sensitive or controversial positions to senior officials within external organizations.
 D. Liaised with government representatives of various levels of authority from outside your organization to exchange information.
 E. None of the above.
12. Do you have experience representing your organization to external audiences?
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Choose the response(s) that best describe(s) your experience working on a team or as a team leader. (Select all that apply.)
 A. I monitored the performance and/or implementation of projects/studies as a team member.
 B. I monitored the performance and/or implementation of projects/studies as a team leader.
 C. None of the above.
14. From the list below, please indicate the leadership function(s) you have performed. (Select all that apply.)
 A. Assigned work.
 B. Communicated priorities.
 C. Monitored work progress.
 D. Prepared reports.
 E. Maintained records.
 F. None of the above.
15. Do you have at least one year of experience providing guidance and oversight to a multi-disciplinary team?
 A. Yes
 B. No
16. From the options below, please choose the answer(s) that describes your experience managing and resolving conflicts and disagreements and minimizing negative impact.
 A. I have experience dealing with individuals who are difficult, hostile or distressed.
 B. I have experience interacting and working with multiple levels of co-workers, supervisors and high level management.
 C. I have experience identifying and responding to critical events with diplomacy and action.
 D. I have experience staying with a position or plan of action until the desired objective was achieved or it was no longer reasonably attainable.
 E. I have experience persuading others to accept findings, recommendations, changes or alternative viewpoints.
 F. I have experience guiding individuals (subordinates, peers, superiors) or groups toward task accomplishment.
 G. I have experience maintaining effectiveness in varying environments and with varying tasks, responsibilities, or people.
 H. I have experience negotiating with others to reach agreement, settlement, consensus, compliance or a solution
 I. None of the above.
17. Do you have experience establishing work assignments and setting priorties for subordinate staff members?
 A. Yes
 B. No
18. Select the leadership duties you have performed.
 A. Planned work to be accomplished by employees.
 B. Set and adjusted priorities.
 C. Monitored the progress of the work.
 D. Strategically assigned work to subordinates.
 E. Developed performance standards and evaluated work performance of employees.
 F. Recognized and rewarded employees for their contributions.
 G. Corrected employees’ contributions.
 H. Counseled and/or disciplined employees for conduct issues.
 I. Gave advice, counsel, or instruction to employees on both technical and administrative matters.
 J. Scheduled employees to cover varying shifts.
 K. None of the above.
19. Have you supervised a team of direct reports?
 A. Yes
 B. No
20. From the list below, select the response that best describes a supervisory task you have performed on a regular and recurring basis.
 A. I have overseen, directed or developed work to be accomplished by subordinates.
 B. I have set goals and adjusted priorities for staff members.
 C. I have prepared schedules for completion of work.
 D. I have directed and supervised operational teams.
 E. I have given advice, counsel or instruction to employees on both work and administrative matters.
 F. I have prepared and executed a budget based on a work plan.
 G. I have counseled and/or disciplined employees on conduct issues and/or performance issues.
 H. I have not performed any of the above supervisory tasks,
21. From the list below, select the supervisory task(s) that you have performed on a regular and recurring basis. (Select all that apply):
 A. Oversaw, directed or developed work to be accomplished by subordinates
 B. Set and adjusted priorities
 C. Prepared schedules for completion of work
 D. Responsible for the first line supervision of employees
 E. Assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees
 F. Developed performance standards and evaluated employees' work
 G. Gave advice, counsel or instruction to employees on both work and administrative matters
 H. Interviewed candidates for positions in a unit
 I. Recommended and/or selected individuals for appointment, promotion, or reassignment
 J. Worked with employees to identify their developmental and training needs based on organizational goals and budget realities
 K. I have not performed any of the above supervisory tasks.
22. Do you have experience managing the work of others?
 A. Yes
 B. No
23. From the list below, select the supervisory task(s) that you have performed on a regular and recurring basis. Select all that apply.
 A. Oversaw, directed or developed work to be accomplished by subordinates
 B. Set and adjusted priorities
 C. Prepared schedules for completion of work
 D. Responsible for the first line supervision of employees
 E. Assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees
 F. Developed performance standards and evaluated employees' work
 G. Gave advice, counsel or instruction to employees on both work and administrative matters
 H. Interviewed candidates for positions in a unit
 I. Recommended and/or selected individuals for appointment, promotion, or reassignment
 J. Worked with employees to identify their developmental and training needs based on organizational goals and budget realities
24. Concerning your leadership experience, select four (4) duty(ies) that you have experience performing on a regular, recurring basis.
 A. I have facilitated collaboration, coordination, and communication between staff members and others.
 B. I have coached staff members in problem solving methods.
 C. I have identified and balanced workload and tasks among employees in accordance with established skill levels.
 D. I have trained and mentored employees.
 E. I have led and motivated others to accomplish mission goals.
 F. I have devised and implemented organizational plans and procedures.
 G. I have provided advice on work methods, practices, and procedures.
 H. I have established performance standards and counseled employees on performance plans.
 I. I have taken necessary action in cases of poor performance or misconduct.
 J. None of the above.
25. Select all responses that reflect your experience in independently developing written documents.
 A. Comprehensive reports, briefings or meetings.
 B. Report findings and recommendations on exercise program and preparedness programs.
 C. Document plans or recommendations to improve effectiveness of programs
 D. Technical summaries.
 E. None of the above
26. Select the response(s) that reflect the activities you have regularly performed for your organization.
 A. Developed written materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences.
 B. Written clearly, logically, concisely, and persuasively for a variety of audiences.
 C. Drafted procedural material for dissemination to field or operating-level elements.
 D. Drafted reports, memoranda, and correspondence for signatures for higher-level officials.
 E. Authored issues/position papers or summary reports on organizational data, which included analysis and recommendations.
 F. Drafted responses to Departmental inquiries.
 G. Communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities in writing.
 H. Written guidelines or procedural instructions for implementing new initiatives or systems.
 I. Explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations.
 J. Composed complex correspondence or other written work including management reports and manuals.
 K. Reviewed reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression and appropriateness for intended audiences.
 L. Compiled correspondence that consolidates input from a number of different sources, including contradictory viewpoints.
 M. Developed comprehensive material for briefings, meetings or conferences.
 N. Conducted multi-discipline workshops in order to develop technical content for a variety of national preparedness products.
 O. None of the above.
27. Do you have experience briefing senior leaders on objectives, plans, or courses of action?
 A. Yes
 B. No
28. Select the statement(s) that best describe your experience working as part of a team. (Select all that apply.)
 A. Optimized staff to achieve team objectives.
 B. Assisted in developing staff competence.
 C. Communicated resource needs to senior staff.
 D. None of the above.
29. Please take this opportunity to review your question responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you understand this statement, have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected