Position Title
Licensed Professional Mental Health Counselor (Program Manager)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBZY-12814569-26-MEK Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, October 21, 2025 to Monday, November 3, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Licensed Professional Mental Health Counselor (LPMHC) (Program Manager) - Vet Center Director position with the Readjustment Counseling Service.

The following questions will be used to determine your eligibility for placement consideration.

Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current situation.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: LPMHCs must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with VA Handbook 5005, Part II, chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3.j.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Basic Education Requirements: To qualify for appointment as a LPMHC all applicants must hold a master's or doctoral degree in: Clinical Mental Health Counseling; Clinical Rehabilitation Counseling; or  a related field, from a program accredited by the Council on Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs (CACREP).

Examples of related mental health counseling fields include, but are not limited to: Addiction Counseling; Community Counseling; Gerontology Counseling; Marital, Couple, and Family Counseling. NOTE: Traditional Rehabilitation counseling programs that are accredited by CACREP do not meet the LPMHC qualification standards as Traditional Rehabilitation counseling differs from Clinical Rehabilitation counseling.

CACREP defines the date when graduates are considered to have graduated from a CACREP accredited program. Additional information may be obtained from http://www.cacrep.org/directory/. 

**Please note: Transcripts that show applicant name, school attended, degree earned and date conferred must be provided. Failure to include transcripts will result in being rated as ineligible for further consideration.

Do you meet this educational Requirement and have you submitted a legible copy of your transcripts?
 Yes, I meet the Basic Educational Requirements and have submitted a legible copy of my transcripts.
 No I do not meet the Basic Educational Requirements or have not submitted a legible copy of my transcripts.


2a.
Please provide the following Information regarding the academic institution from which you received your degree:
Name of Institution:   
City and State:
Degree earned: Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:


3.
Basic Licensure Requirement: Persons hired or reassigned to LPMHC positions in the GS-0183 series in VHA must hold a full, current and unrestricted license to independently practice as a Licensed Professional Mental Health Counselor, which includes diagnosis and treatment.

Do you possess a full, current and unrestricted license to independently practice as a Licensed Professional Mental Health Counselor, which includes diagnosis and treatment?

*Please note: A legible copy of your licensure must be provided. Failure to include your licensure will result in being rated as ineligible for further consideration. 
 Yes, I hold a full, current and unrestricted license to independently practice as a Licensed Professional Mental Health Counselor, which includes diagnosis and treatment.
 No, I do not hold a full, current and unrestricted license to independently practice as a Licensed Professional Mental Health Counselor, which includes diagnosis and treatment.


3a.
Please provide the following Information regarding your Licensure.
Licensure Type:
State Issued:
Date Issued:
Expiration Date:


4.
GS-13 Grade Determination: In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met:

Experience, Education, and Licensure: Candidates must have:
At least one year of progressively complex experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level. The experience must demonstrate possession of advanced practice skills and judgment, demonstrating progressively more professional competency. ~AND~
Full, current and unrestricted license to independently practice as a Licensed Professional Mental Health Counselor, which includes diagnosis and treatment.
~AND~

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs): In addition to the basic requirements and the above listed experience, education and licensure grade requirements, the candidates must demonstrate all of the KSAs for both the GS-12 and GS-13 grades:

GS-12 KSAs (Your application must clearly demonstrate at least one full year of experience that reflects all the below GS-12 KSAs):
In depth knowledge of the program coordinated, and demonstrated knowledge and ability to write policies procedures and or practice guidelines for the program.
Making key decisions in the hiring and identification of top candidates.
Providing leadership in facilitating the process of coordinating program consults, assessments, admissions, care assignments and discharges.
Providing subject matter consultation to other colleagues and trainees within the field of counseling working on an interdisciplinary team.

GS-13 KSAs: 
Ability to make judgments and decisions associated with program management.
Ability to monitor program outcomes using data driven quality assurance process.
Ability to develop productivity standards appropriate to each service provided. 
Ability to manage a wide range of programs which include the operation and management of key clinical, training or administrative programs.

Do you meet all the above GS-13 Grade Determination Requirements and does your application clearly demonstrate experience that supports all the listed KSAs?
 Yes, I meet all the above GS-13 Grade Determination Requirements and my application clearly demonstrates experience that supports all the listed KSAs.
 No, I do not meet one or more of the GS-13 Grade Determination Requirements or I am unable to clearly demonstrate experience related to one or more of the listed KSAs.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙