Position Title
Social Science Program Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBZY-12790010-25-TW Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 8, 2025 to Friday, September 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position you will be separated from; AND,
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; AND, 
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
9
11
2. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Social Science Program Specialist (Silent Monitor) position with the Office of Suicide Prevention (OSP), Veterans Crisis Line (VCL), Quality, Training, & Risk Management. Applicants must meet the requirements for this position by the closing date of the announcement. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.

Current Federal Employees: You must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50). Additionally, you must submit a SF-50 to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted). If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide additional SF-50's that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade. Examples of appropriate SF-50's include: 
Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or
Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or
SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old.

A transcript must be submitted with your application if you are basing all or part of your qualifications on education.  Transcripts must depict the name of the college to determine accreditation, and your name must also be displayed on the transcripts.  If qualifying based on a degree, or for positions requiring a degree, the transcript must show the date the degree was conferred.  If selected, you must provide official transcripts.  Transcripts should state degree conferred, and have a date.  Copies of Official Transcripts are accepted and are the best way to ensure your education is interpreted correctly in accordance with OPM qualification standards, but unofficial transcripts are accepted if they contain all the required information.
1. Basic requirements: Select the ONE statement below that best describes your education and/or experience to meet the basic requirement for this position
 A. I have successfully completed a four year degree or higher from an accredited college or university. The degree must be in a behavioral or social science or related discipline to the work of the position. (Transcript required)
 B. I have a combination of four years total education and experience that provides me with knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field. (Transcript required)
 C. I have four years of appropriate experience that demonstrate I have acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 D. I do not possess the education or experience requirements necessary to meet the basic requirements for this position.
2. Qualification Requirement: Select the one statement below that best describes the experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a Social Science Program Specialist, GS-9 at the level(s) or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.
 A. Specialized Experience: I possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-7) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. In order to meet the minimum qualifications for this position, you must meet 3/5 of the following examples of specialized experience: designing, completing, and distributing quality assessment reports to management; completing evaluations for educational purposes; identifying performance and quality assurance issues; providing one-on-one coaching and feedback to staff; monitoring quality standards to ensure policy compliance, collaboration, and expedited connection to appropriate resources.
 B. Applicants may substitute education for the required experience: I possess 2 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master's degree or master's or equivalent graduate degree in a field that is directly related to the work of this position that demonstrates my ability to perform the duties of this position. This education must have been obtained in an accredited college or university. One year of graduate study is usually considered to be 18 semester hours unless otherwise indicated by the school attended. (Transcript required)
 C. Combination: I possess an equivalent combination of specialized experience and graduate education that is directly related to the work of this position that demonstrates my ability to perform the duties of this position. (Transcript required)
 D. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
3. Qualification Requirement: Select the one statement below that best describes the experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a Social Science Program Specialist, GS-11 at the level(s) or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.
 A. Specialized Experience: I possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-9) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. In order to meet the minimum qualifications for this position, you must meet 5/7 of the following examples of specialized experience: designing, completing, and distributing quality assessment reports to management; completing evaluations for educational purposes; identifying performance and quality assurance issues; providing one-on-one coaching and feedback to staff; monitoring quality standards to ensure policy compliance, collaboration, and expedited connection to appropriate resources; applying crisis theory and the principles of crisis intervention; performing the steps of the crisis management process: engagement, rapport building, assessment, planning, problem solving, implementation, evaluation, and follow up.
 B. Applicants may substitute education for the required experience: I possess a have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M. if related, in a field that is directly related to the work of this position that demonstrate my ability to perform the duties of this position. This education must have been obtained in an accredited college or university. One year of graduate study is usually considered to be 18 semester hours unless otherwise indicated by the school attended. (Transcript required)
 C. Combination: I possess an equivalent combination of specialized experience and graduate education that is directly related to the work of this position that demonstrates my ability to perform the duties of this position. (Transcript required)
 D. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. Are you willing and able to work nights, weekends and holidays as needed to support the 24/7 operations of the Veterans Crisis Line?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected