Position Title
Supervisory Emergency Management Specialist
Agency
Federal Emergency Management Agency
Announcement Number
FEMA-LG-12765132-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 16, 2025 to Monday, July 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)

Are you a current or former FEMA Stafford Act employee eligible under the Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)?

Current and former FEMA Stafford Act employees who can document 64 or more hours of paid time, per pay period, with no breaks in service* for 78 or more consecutive pay periods since August 1, 2014, are eligible to be considered for this Merit Promotion Job Opportunity Announcement. (*Note: A "break in service" is defined as 3 or more days in non-pay status, except as allowed under 5 CFR § 315.201(b)(3)(ii) for special circumstances such as military deployment, etc.).

To verify eligibility, you must submit: 
"Notice of DRRA Eligibility" provided by OCHCO.  If you believe you're eligible, but have not received your notice, please reach out to the HR Specialist listed in the announcement.
Your FEMA SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your appointment in the excepted service under the Stafford Act.  We recommend attaching a SF-50 which indicates your highest grade and step.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Current FEMA Employee

Are you a current FEMA employee who currently holds OR has previously held a permanent (not time limited) position in the competitive service?

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your permanent competitive status.  Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions.  You may need to submit more than one SF-50.  Your SF-50 must reflect:
Block 24 - Tenure:  1 - Permanent (career) or 2 - Conditional: AND
Block 34 - Position Occupied:  1 - Competitive Service
If you previously held a career or career conditional appointment, you must provide your current SF-50 and your SF-50 which shows competitive status eligibility.
Please do not submit an award SF-50, as it might not indicate your grade level and step.  
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. FEMA Employees Only Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)
Are you a current or former FEMA employee who is considered displaced or surplus (you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction in Force)?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, your most recent performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. How did you hear about this Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) job opportunity?
 A. USAJOBS
 B. FEMA's Social Media (Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Online Job board (Indeed, Zip Recruiter, etc.)
 D. FEMA.gov Careers Website
 E. FEMA Virtual Hiring Event
 F. FEMA On-Site Hiring Event
 G. College/University/Alumni Organization
 H. FEMA Employee Referral
 I. Other
2. Are you a retiree receiving a federal annuity (either military or civilian)? Or have you accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years? (Select all that apply.)
 A. Yes, I'm receiving a military annuity.
 B. Yes, I'm receiving a civilian annuity.
 C. Yes, I've received a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
 D. No, I am not receiving a federal annuity and have not accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
3. Are you a current FEMA employee?
 A. I'm a current FEMA Local Hire Employee
 B. I'm a current FEMA Reservist Employee
 C. I'm a current FEMA CORE Employee
 D. I'm a current FEMA PFT Employee
 E. I'm a current FEMA Senior Executive Service Employee
 F. I'm not a current FEMA Employee
4. Are you currently serving, or have served within the last five years, as a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) employee in the Executive Branch?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Please provide the following information regarding your political appointment(s): 1. Official Title of Position; 2. Type of Appointment (i.e. Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career SES); 3. Name of Agency; 4. Date Position began; and 5. Date Position ended. (NOTE: If you have never held a political appointment, please enter N/A.)
6. Within the past five years, have you received a buyout or payment through the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment Authority (VSIP) when separating from a federal position?
 A. No
 B. Yes, and I understand candidates who are reemployed with the federal government within five years after receiving a buyout or payment under VSIP are required to repay the entire amount of the incentive prior to their onboarding date.
Conditions of Employment
1. If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?

Select "Not Applicable" if this question does not apply to you.
 A. Yes
 B. No, but I have an exemption
 C. I am a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, and have NOT registered with the Selective Service System and do NOT have an exemption.
 D. Not Applicable
2. All FEMA employees are subject to 24-hour on-call in the event of an emergency and all Federal employees may be subject to emergency deployment. In the event of an emergency deployment, travel requirements may be extensive in nature (weeks to months), with little advance notice, and may require relocation to emergency sites, some of which are quite austere. The length of deployment may last anywhere from days to months, depending upon the nature of the emergency or disaster.

Every FEMA employee is considered an emergency manager and each employee has regular and recurring emergency management responsibilities, although not every position requires routine deployment to disaster sites. Your emergency management duties may vary depending on the needs of the Agency, your particular skills, and certain personal circumstances. All positions may require irregular work hours, work at locations other than the official duty station, and may include duties other than those specified in the employee's official position description.

Are you able to meet this commitment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

In order to be hired for this position, applicants must undergo and successfully pass a background investigation. This may include a review of financial issues, such as delinquency, child support and/or tax obligations, as well as certain criminal offenses and illegal use of or possession of drugs.

Are you willing to undergo a background investigation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Your responses to the questions below will be used in the evaluation of your qualifications for this position. Your resume and application materials must support the level of experience and/or education you claim in this questionnaire, If, after a complete review of your application package, a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications, you may be rated in eligible for this position.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you have one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-12 level, as defined in the vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. GS positions-Please indicate where and when you obtained each of the specialized experience requirements listed in the Qualifications section of this Job Opportunity Announcement. Include in your response: (1) the area of specialized experience; (2) the place of employment; and, (3) the specific dates of employment the experience was gained in MM/DD/YYYY - MM/DD/YYYY format. Your response must be supported by your resume. If qualifying based on education alone, please enter Not Applicable.
Example: Experience in developing and delivering presentations and training; ABC Company; 10/01/2016 - 05/15/2018.
(limit 500 characters)
3. From the list below, select the statement that best describes your experience with mission assignments.
 A. I have reported on information that directly contributed to mission assignments.
 B. I have created mission assignments collaboratively with federal partners.
 C. I have reviewed mission assignments for accuracy.
 D. I have approved mission assignments.
 E. I have no experience in this area.
4. Select all responses that reflect your experience in an emergency operations center environment.
 A. Formulated strategies for emergency response planning.
 B. Advised senior leadership on operations center capabilities for response actions.
 C. Analyzed resource requirements.
 D. Executed emergency response plans.
 E. Initiated notification procedures to maintain situational awareness.
 F. Coordinated on-going operations with subordinate personnel.
 G. None of the above.
5. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your knowledge and application of the operational concepts of the National Response Framework as they relate to emergency operations.
 A. I have participated in working groups involved in the development of organization-wide program policy related to emergency operations.
 B. I have assisted leadership in coordinating the interest and efforts of regional governmental jurisdictions having conflicting or overlapping objectives on emergency operations.
 C. I have advised, under direction from leadership, representatives of community groups, private citizens, and/or State/local/Tribal government officials on disaster operations.
 D. I have assisted in the resolution of conflicting or overlapping objectives of regional jurisdictions during disaster operations.
 E. I have participated in coordination efforts between my own organization and community groups, private citizens, and/or State/local/Tribal government officials on disaster operations.
 F. I have served as a point of contact on policy issues related to emergency management situations.
 G. None of the above.
6. Choose the statement(s) that best describe your communication/briefing skills that you use as a regular part of your job to support organizational goals and leadership.
 A. Regularly communicate legal issues, risks or conclusions orally to senior management.
 B. Explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations orally to senior management.
 C. Defend client-partner's position to third parties performing oversight review of programs.
 D. Foster cooperation and consensus among groups in furthering organizational goals.
 E. Build consensus through collaboration from others to obtain information, achieve results and accomplish goals.
 F. None of the above.
7. From the list below, select the type(s) of customer(s) with whom you have experience maintaining customer relationships.
 A. I have maintained customer relationships with representatives from other Federal Agencies.
 B. I have maintained customer relationships with the general public.
 C. I have maintained customer relationships with senior executives.
 D. I have maintained customer relationships with mid-level managers.
 E. I have maintained customer relationships with internal customers.
 F. I have maintained customer relationships with faith-based groups.
 G. I have maintained customer relationships with officials from volunteer organizations.
 H. I have maintained customer relationships with elected officials.
 I. None of the above.
8. Select the response(s) that best describe(s) your experience interacting with people in various work situations to achieve solutions:
 A. I have served as a spokesperson for an organization.
 B. I have facilitated activities between organizational entities
 C. I have mediated or facilitated problem resolution.
 D. I have independently conducted meetings.
 E. I have independently planned meetings.
 F. I have served on panels, committees, or task forces on technical issues.
 G. None of the above.
9. Choose all of the examples that apply to your experience developing effective internal and external working relationships. (Select all that apply.)
 A. Demonstrated ability to build constructive relationships with customers, peers, supervisors, managers, and subordinates.
 B. Took calculated risks to improve performance, develop innovations, or achieve challenging goals.
 C. Acted decisively and appropriately during a crisis.
 D. Took action to evaluate and improve practices and avoid future problems.
 E. None of the above.
10. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience supporting the achievement of team goals.
 A. I have volunteered to provide assistance beyond my job duties when help was requested.
 B. I have sought opportunities where I could contribute to achieving team goals.
 C. I have collaborated with team members to complete assignments.
 D. I have provided guidance to others to carry out assignments.
 E. I have provided team updates to customers, management, or executives.
 F. I have worked to minimize or address obstacles to accomplishing team goals.
 G. None of the above.
11. I have performed the following leadership-type functions in work unit or team assignments:
 A. Set standards, expectations, and deadlines
 B. Developed, updated, and executed portions of operating budgets
 C. Planned the work to be assigned to employees or team members
 D. Assigned tasks and responsibilities to employees or team members
 E. Established work schedules and worksite assignments
 F. Reviewed completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness
 G. Followed up with employees or team members to assure timeliness in meeting milestones
 H. Resolved conflicts, differences, or problems among employees or team members
 I. Coached and mentored employees or team members to achieve desired results
 J. Removed or reassigned poor-performing employees or team members
12. Select the statement(s) that describe(s) your experience providing technical and/or operational leadership of a large financial, administrative, or operational program in a Federal environment.
 A. Financial program management.
 B. Administrative program management.
 C. Operational program management.
 D. None of the above.
13. Select the response(s) for which you have experience applying supervisory and managerial practices.
 A. Working with an Alternative Dispute Resolution program in order to resolve employee complaints.
 B. Ensuring Equal Rights principles are followed and practices are fair and consistent across the board.
 C. Responding to Equal Opportunity Complaints in order to resolve issues.
 D. Responding to union grievances in order to resolve issues.
 E. Delegating responsibility to subordinate supervisors in order to achieve the goals of the organization.
 F. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
14. Please take this opportunity to review your question responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you understand this statement, have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected