Position Title
Supervisory Import Specialist
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OT-IMP-12771775-TTL Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 8, 2025 to Wednesday, August 27, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction:  As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of GS-15?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Federal employees who competed for and currently hold, or have previously held, a permanent position of GS-15 (or equivalent) or higher, may be referred for selection without competition under our agency promotion procedures. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-11 position with promotion potential to the GS-13.  The progression is GS-11, GS-12, and GS-13.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-13.
Your current position is a GS-14. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-15 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-14.
Your current position is a GS-14. You previously held a GS-15 position on a permanent basis.  GS-15 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-14 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-14 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-14 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-15 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
3. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
4. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
5. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
6. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-15 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes interpreting legal and policy instruments and providing guidance to U.S. Customs and Border Protection personnel, including the Office of Field Operations, as well as the trade, especially as it relates to the classification, country of origin, marking, and other import-related issues pertaining to the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States. Furnishing technical, administrative, and programmatic guidance and advice with respect to programs, as well as identifying key performance indicators and monitoring progress towards strategic goals. Directing, coordinating, and reviewing the work of the team in a supervisory capacity, involving the contributions of subject-matter experts to written work products as they pertain to relevant policy issues. Reviewing written work to ensure technical accuracy and analyzing policy implications and the decisions' effects on uniformity. Developing and implementing operating procedures, policies, and strategic plans, pertaining to core management functions; the integration and streamlining of business practices; the development of staff; and strategic communications.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
7. All newly appointed, GS-15s are required to complete mandatory leadership training. The Office of Training and Development will schedule eligible managers to attend the training within the first 90 days of appointment. All newly appointed, permanent GS-15s shall attain the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to successfully perform their responsibilities by completing required leadership training in accordance with agency policy.

NOTE: This training may be waived if previously completed.

Do you acknowledge that you will be required to schedule the mandatory training within the first 90-days of your appointment and complete the training in Harpers Ferry, WV unless you have already completed this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
1. Indicate the extent of your experience classifying merchandise or commodities using the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.

 A. I have no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have a basic understanding of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States, but I have not applied this knowledge on the job.
 C. I have assisted others in classifying merchandise or commodities using the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
 D. I have independently classified merchandise or commodities using the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
2. Indicate the extent of your experience searching for and interpreting administrative or legal precedents in order to arrive at a classification or related decision.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received guidance from a supervisor or more senior individual on how to interpret administrative and legal precedents when making classification or related decisions.
 C. I have extensive experience searching for and interpreting administrative and legal precedents when making classification or related decisions.
 D. I have supervised others in the interpretation of administrative and legal precedents in making classification or related decisions.
3. Do you have experience representing your agency on import cases brought to the court system?

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Indicate the extent of your experience composing written rationales to support tariff classifications.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have composed portions of written rationales to support tariff classifications.
 C. I have independently composed entire written rationales to support tariff classifications.
 D. I have reviewed written rationales supporting tariff classifications composed by coworkers or subordinates and edited them to resolve errors, reconcile discrepancies, and ensure compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.
5. Do you have experience serving as a national consultant on tariff classification, origin, and other import-related issues?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Indicate the extent of your experience creating administrative records, logs, and reports.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have some experience assisting others in the completion of administrative records, logs, and reports.
 C. I have independently created administrative records and logs, and have completed entire administrative reports that have been disseminated to my work unit.
 D. I have been responsible for creating or reviewing multiple administrative records, logs, and reports for my work unit. I have periodically participated in reviews to ensure all documents were in compliance with applicable laws and policies.
7. Indicate the extent of your experience in expressing facts and ideas in writing.
 A. I have written short responses to routine requests for information.
 B. I have written portions of reports, information papers, and other documents (technical and non-technical).
 C. I have independently composed written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, and other complete documents based on study findings and results of analyses.
 D. I have independently completed one or more written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, and other complete documents based on study findings and results of analyses. I have successfully tailored written information to the technical knowledge of my audience.
8. Indicate the extent of your experience gathering and analyzing facts and evidence to provide recommendations for action.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have gathered basic facts or information for analyses which were performed by a supervisor or more senior individual.
 C. I have independently gathered basic facts or information. I have provided written or verbal summaries to a supervisor or more senior individual.
 D. I have analyzed facts and evidence, developed a verbal or written summary of my conclusions, and made recommendations for actions based on my work.
9. Select the statement which best describes how you typically plan and organize your work.

 A. I have followed schedules, goals, and guidelines prepared by my supervisor.
 B. I have set goals and priorities for my own work to ensure that deadlines were met.
 C. I have set goals and priorities for my own work and coordinated activities and timelines with others to ensure that project goals and deadlines were met.
 D. I have set project requirements and priorities, developed strategies to achieve goals, and determined work requirements to include resources and personnel.
10. Indicate the extent to which you have orally presented information to all levels of employees and management.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have notified supervisors, managers, or offices orally of decisions, problems, or further actions needed. In addition, I have informally explained the organization’s programs or services to others.
 C. I have given formal presentations at departmental/organizational briefings and meetings, and acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations.
 D. I have given formal presentations of technical material that was often controversial or sensitive. I have adapted my explanations to the level of the target audience.
11. Indicate the extent to which you have developed and maintained effective relationships (liaison) with a variety of individuals (e.g., industry representatives, attorneys, high-level officials).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have maintained relationships with individuals in my work group or office, primarily in the completion of my regular job duties or in my response to specific inquiries.
 C. I have maintained relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group and office to exchange information, resolve problems, or participate in joint task forces/teams.
 D. I have developed and maintained extensive relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group, office, and organization to resolve problems, plan joint task force/team projects, and establish long-term working relationships.
12. Indicate the extent of your experience in inspiring, motivating, or guiding others toward the accomplishment of goals.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had limited experience, gained primarily as a team leader or acting supervisor, in inspiring, motivating, or guiding others toward the accomplishment of specific goals/objectives assigned to the team.
 C. I have had extensive experience, gained as a supervisor or manager, inspiring, motivating, or guiding others toward the accomplishment of goals by monitoring their work and providing guidance, training, or direction as needed.
13. Indicate the extent of your experience in assigning work to subordinates based on priorities, requirements of assignments, and capabilities of the employees.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had some experience in assigning work as an acting supervisor.
 C. I have had experience as a supervisor in assigning work to subordinates and adjusting those assignments based on changing priorities and demonstrated skills of employees.
 D. I have had experience as a first-, second-, or third-level supervisor in assigning program and project responsibilities to subordinate units.
14. Select the choice which best describes your knowledge of and experience with performance appraisal systems/approaches.

 A. I have no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have a basic knowledge of performance appraisal systems and approaches, but no experience in implementing or maintaining a performance appraisal system.
 C. I have had responsibility for documenting performance appraisal objectives and standards and formally rating employees' performance.
 D. I have had experience in maintaining and monitoring a performance appraisal system for a work unit, including rating subordinates' performance and evaluating performance ratings assigned by other supervisors to nonsupervisory employees.
15. Indicate the extent of your experience evaluating projects or programs for effectiveness, efficiency, and compliance.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have evaluated established projects or programs based on pre-determined guidelines to ensure effectiveness, efficiency, and compliance.
 C. I have evaluated established projects or programs and prepared recommendations to improve effectiveness, efficiency, and/or compliance.
 D. I have evaluated complex or novel projects or programs and developed new methods to improve effectiveness, efficiency, and compliance.
16. Indicate the extent of your experience in providing mentoring and coaching to new employees.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have informally provided guidance to new employees on administrative matters.
 C. I have been formally assigned as a mentor or coach for new employees to aid in their technical and professional development.
 D. I have extensive experience acting as a mentor or coach for new employees. I have provided them with guidance and support to aid in their professional and personal development.
 E. I have developed and implemented formal mentoring and coaching programs for my organization. I have had primary responsibility for overseeing the rollout of the programs and have provided training and guidance on best practices for the programs.
17. Indicate the extent of your experience in evaluating candidates and making personnel recommendations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have provided recommendations on employees assigned to me, noting their strengths and weaknesses.
 C. I have participated in ranking panels or have conducted structured interviews or their equivalents in order to make personnel recommendations (e.g., appointments, selections, promotions).
 D. I have evaluated recommendations from subordinate supervisors regarding personnel actions (e.g., appointments, selections, promotions, reassignments, terminations), and have made the final decision.
18. Indicate the extent of your experience in resolving complaints and grievances from employees.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had experience resolving routine complaints from individual employees.
 C. I have had experience in resolving serious complaints from individual employees as well as groups of employees.
 D. I have had extensive experience in resolving serious complaints and formal grievances from individual employees as well as groups of employees.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected