Position Title
Supervisory Medical Support Assistant
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSX-12816442-26-AW Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 16, 2025 to Monday, October 20, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


4.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Supervisory Medical Support Assistant position with the VA. Please provide an answer to each question. Answering "no" or failing to respond to any of the below questions will result in an ineligible rating.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency. Supervisory Medical Support Assistants must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Chapter 3, Section A, paragraph 3.j. Are you proficient in written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


2.
You must meet at least one of the following criteria to qualify for at the entry level for this position: (1) Six months experience of clerical office or other work that indicates the ability to acquire the particular knowledge and skills needs to perform the duties of the position; or (2) One year above high school; or (3) Equivalent combination of experience and education are qualifying for entry level for which both education and experience are acceptable. (Transcripts required if using education to qualify).
 Yes, I possess at least 6 months of clerical, office or other work experience that indicates my ability to perform the duties of this position.
 Yes, I possess at least 1 year of education above high school. (Transcript required)
 Yes, I possess an equivalent combination of experience and education. (Transcript required)
 I do not possess the experience or education requirements as noted above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Experience GS-08: In addition to meeting the basic requirement above, do you possess one (1) year of experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level leading or supervising Medical Support Assistants or equivalent administrative patient support staff in a non-VA medical inpatient, outpatient, or interdisciplinary setting and can demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities below?
- Ability to provide the full range of administrative and supervisory duties [to at least one subordinate MSA supervisor or team leader in a patient support setting which includes assignment of work, performance evaluations, selection of staff, and recommendation of awards and/or advancements.
- Ability to collaborate, communicate, and demonstrate customer service and interpersonal skills with internal and external customers to ensure quality/continuity of care and ensure compliance with established policies and regulations.
- Ability to provide briefings, orientations, staff development, and training in a patient support setting.
- Ability to manage fiscal matters, forecast resource and equipment needs, and identify budget needs.
- Advanced knowledge of managing or leading patient support staff in a clinic. This includes independently utilizing reference sources, decision making, and empowering the team to collaborate and resolve problems within a complex systems environment.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙