Position Title
Front Desk Associate
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12811300 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 2, 2025 to Friday, October 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Review and answer all questions on this assessment or it will automatically disqualify you.


1.
Do you have at least 6 months or more of documented experience on your resume of knowledge of basic principles, concepts, standards, and regulations related to hospitality operations? *Mut be documented on resume to receive credit*
 I have 1+ years of experience.
 I have at least 6 months of experience.
 I do not have any documented experience.


2.
Are you willing and able to work an irregular schedule, which may include weekends, holidays, rotating shifts, different locations, recall to duty, overtime, and /or reporting to work in inclement weather or times when other employees may be excused?
 yes
 no


3.
How much experience do you have for this front desk associate position such as lodging reservations and cancellations, providing assistance with customer complaints, preparing close bank reports and cash receipt deposits etc.? *Must be documented on resume to receive credit*
 I have 2+ years of experience.
 I have 1 year experience.
 I have at least 6 months of experience.
 I have no experience.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙