Position Title
Child And Youth Program Direct Care Supervisor
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
FFR25-0554A Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 5, 2025 to Friday, September 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Child and Youth Program Direct Care Supervisor position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
1. Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you.
 A. I have a bachelor’s degree or higher in Youth Development, Child Development or a related field, which may include Recreation, Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Elementary Education, Secondary Education, Early Childhood Education, Psychology, Social Work, Home Economics with an emphasis in Human Development, or other degrees as appropriate and 2 years of full time experience working with children and/or youth.
 B. I have two years of specialized experience in the child and/or youth profession. Specialized experience includes leading a team to care for and teach children in a Military childcare setting or similar work.
 C. I have none of the above.
2. What is your highest level of education?
 A. I have a Bachelor’s degree or higher in Youth Development, Child Development or a related field, which may Include Recreation, Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Elementary Education, Secondary Education, Early Childhood Education, Psychology, Social Work, Home Economics with an emphasis in Human Development, or other degrees as appropriate.
 B. I have an Associate’s degree in Youth Development, Child Development or a related field, which may Include Recreation, Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Elementary Education, Secondary Education, Early Childhood Education, Psychology, Social Work, Home Economics with an emphasis in Human Development, or other degrees as appropriate.
 C. I have completed DoD Standardized Training or have a valid Child Development Associate (CDA) credential or Military School-Age (MSA) credential.
 D. I have none of the above.
3. How many years of experience do you have leading, mentoring, or guiding others (e.g., individuals, groups, teams and peers) in a child youth program setting?
 A. I have more 5+ years of experience, as described above, in a Child and Youth Program.
 B. I have 3 to 5 years of experience, as described above, in a Child and Youth Program.
 C. I have 2 to 3 years of experience, as described above, in a Child and Youth Program.
 D. I have 1 to 2 years of experience, as described above, in a Child and Youth Program.
 E. I have less than 1 year of experience, as described above, in a Child and Youth Program.
4. How many years of experience do you have implementing programs and activities that promote a positive learning environment for children/youth in a group setting (e.g., develop social skills, make healthy choices, and build self-help and school readiness skills)?

 A. I have more 5+ years of experience, as described above, in a Child and Youth Program.
 B. I have 3 to 5 years of experience, as described above, in a Child and Youth Program.
 C. I have 2 to 3 years of experience, as described above, in a Child and Youth Program.
 D. I have 1 to 2 years of experience, as described above, in a Child and Youth Program.
 E. I have less than 1 year of experience, as described above, in a Child and Youth Program.
5. How many years of experience do you have developing and delivering core programs and activities for child and youth?

 A. I have more 5+ years of experience, as described above, in a Child and Youth Program.
 B. I have 3 to 5 years of experience, as described above, in a Child and Youth Program.
 C. I have 2 to 3 years of experience, as described above, in a Child and Youth Program.
 D. I have 1 to 2 years of experience, as described above, in a Child and Youth Program.
 E. I have less than 1 year of experience, as described above, in a Child and Youth Program.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected