Position Title
HR SPEC (EMPLOYEE BENEFITS/COMPENSATION)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
OH-12796250-AR-25-308-T5 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 11, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
9
11
AOC
1. Are you on-board T5 of the Ohio National Guard within ONG HRO?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.

Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you have at least 3 years of progressively responsible experience, 1 year of which was equivalent to at least GS-4, that demonstrates the ability to do the following?
Analyze problems to identify significant factors, gather pertinent data, and recognize solutions;
Plan and organize work; and
Communicate effectively orally and in writing.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you have at least 1-year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade; specialized experience that prepared you to perform the duties of the position; have an educational-degree study program or military or civilian academic courses that you may substitute for some specialized experience; you must demonstrate the specialized experience competencies (skills, knowledge, abilities and behaviors) to qualify for a position identified by its position grade and career level; have specialized experience factors that encompass human resources program's business competencies, familiarity with the subject matter or processes used in human resources programs associated with DoD, U.S. Army, or U.S. Air Force?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
3. Provides counseling to management, employees, annuitants, and family members of deceased employees by interpreting, applying, and explaining retirement and insurance laws, regulations, and policies on available retirement insurance benefits, death benefits, entitlements/options. Researches and interprets appropriate regulations to provide advice to employees concerning reinstatement of insurance, conversion of life insurance and features of the programs and options associated with retirement. Assist employees in the preparation of retirement applications and related documents and forwards to the Army Benefits Center Civilian (ABC-C). Determines type of separation and completion of eOPF maintenance for documents. Maintains a current knowledge of legislative development, agency reorganizations and other pertinent activities that may have an impact on management and employees. Provides technical guidance and assistance in the development and implementation of benefit program changes and open seasons. Determines entitlement to retirement annuities, eligibility for continuation of life and health insurance. Provides technical advice to personnel on a variety of programs such as health and life insurance and Thrift Savings Plan (TSP). Provides initial overview to new employees on the benefit programs available to them.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
4. Assists in administering programs such as the Mass Transit, Reasonable Accommodations (RA), Telework, Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Act, military, or civilian deposits for CSRS/FERS, disability benefits, Light Duty Program, and Workers Compensation Program. Develop and process termination memorandums. Compose termination memorandums (30-day notice) in compliance with formats contained in the correspondence regulation for non-retention, mandatory removal date (MRD), mandatory separation date (MSD), medical disqualification, age 60, etc. Monitors and ensures the Federal Employees Compensation Act (FECA) program is properly publicized and supervisors are provided the appropriate guidelines for use of the program. In coordination with the NGB J1-Functional Manager ensures prompt submission of claims and medical documents. Works with Department of Labor (DOL), Defense Civilian Personnel Advisory Service (DCPAS), to ensure only legitimate claims are submitted. Coordinates with Safety Managers and Supervisors to ensure all applicable workplace validation and documentation is obtained for the claim. Potentially fraudulent and questionable claims are reported to the appropriate office for investigation. Assesses and analyzes situations to ensure minimum compensation costs are expended and light duty policies are implemented.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected