Position Title
Lead Clinical Laboratory Scientist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12790162-25-DW Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 27, 2025 to Wednesday, September 3, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).
Assessment 1
In accordance with Office Of The Chief Human Capital Officer (OCHCO) Bulletin, Annual Determination of Staffing Shortages, dated October 1, 2024; Medical Technologist, 0644 (all specializations are included) are not subject to Veterans Preference. This will continue until 09/30/2025. Veterans Preference will not be collected for this public announcement.
The following section is used to determine your minimum qualifications for appointment with the Federal Government. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING. YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSES YOU SELECT.
Federal regulations require a person appointed in any direct care capacity to possess such basic proficiency in spoken and written English as will permit such degree of communication with patients and other health-care personnel as will enable the person to carry out the person's health-care responsibilities satisfactorily.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. English Language Proficiency: Clinical Laboratory Scientist (CLS) appointed to direct patient care positions must be proficient in spoken and written English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Grandfathering Provision. The following is the standard grandfathering policy for all hybrid title 38 qualification standards. Some of these provisions may not apply to this occupation. Please carefully review the qualification standard to determine the specific education, credential or certification requirements that apply to this occupation. All persons employed in VHA in this occupation under a permanent, appropriate, and legal placement on the effective date of this qualification standard, are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade and/or assignment held, including positive education and certification where applicable. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements of this standard but met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed, the following provisions apply:
 Employees may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance (journey) level, or be changed to a lower grade within the 5 occupation but may not be promoted beyond the journeyman level or newly placed in supervisory or managerial positions.
If an assignment above the FPL requires an additional certification over and above the basic requirements, employees must meet the assignment-specific requirement before they can be promoted.
Employees who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed on a temporary or permanent basis until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard.
Employees retained in this occupation under this provision who subsequently leave the occupation lose protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of re-entry to the occupation.
Employees initially grandfathered into this occupation who subsequently obtain certification that meets all the basic requirements of this qualification standards must maintain the required credentials as a condition of employment in the occupation.
2. Credential. Do you currently hold a Generalist certification as a Medical Laboratory Scientist (given by ASCP BOC or AMT) or a Medical Technologist (given by ASCP BOR or AMT) ?

Persons appointed or reassigned to CLS positions in the GS-0644 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a valid Generalist certification as a Medical Laboratory Scientist (given by ASCP BOC or AMT) or a Medical Technologist (given by ASCP BOR or AMT).

 A. Yes. I hold a Generalist certification as a Medical Laboratory Scientist (given by ASCP BOC or AMT) or a Medical Technologist (given by ASCP BOR or AMT) .
 B. I am a current VHA Employee in this occupation that is covered under the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard.
 C. No. I do not meet this requirement.
Foreign Education. To be creditable, education completed outside the U.S. must be deemed at least equivalent to that gained in a conventional U.S. program by a private organization specializing in the interpretation of foreign educational credentials. Graduates of foreign baccalaureate degree programs meet the educational requirements if they meet either of the following:
Foreign transcripts are evaluated by an acceptable evaluation agency, and the degree is found to be equivalent to a NAACLS-approved U.S. clinical laboratory science degree program. OR
The applicant submits a letter from ASCP BOC or AMT stating the individual is eligible to take the certification examination.
NOTE: Possession of a certification identified above automatically determines the foreign education as creditable and no further documentation or proof of equivalency is needed.
3. Education: Individuals must have successfully completed a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university. Have you successfully completed a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university?
 A. Yes. I meet this education requirement.
 B. I am a current VHA Employee in this occupation that is covered under the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard.
 C. I have a foreign degree and have either had my foreign education evaluated by an acceptable evaluation agency, or I possess the certification described in question 3 above, or am eligible for taking the certification examination and have uploaded documentation from ASCP BOC or AMT showing eligibility.
 D. No. I do not meet the education requirement.
Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following question based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.
For all lead assignments, the individual must spend at least 25% or more of their time performing lead duties over staff one grade level below. The Lead CLS communicates the organization's strategic plan, mission, vision, and values. The Lead CLS identifies, distributes, balances work, coaches, and facilitates with problem solving methods. The Lead CLS prepares reports and maintains records of work status; resolves simple, informal complaints; reports performance, progress, and training needs of the team and on behavioral problems; and provides information on promotions, reassignment, recognition of outstanding performance, and personnel needs. The Lead CLS is responsible for all aspects of operation in their area of specialty, including assignment of work responsibilities, workload management, and completion of assignments for staff at or above the FPL as well as preparation and maintenance of records and reports, analysis of testing methodologies, training, instrumentation, and compliance. The Lead CLS may act as a liaison to the supervisor and other departments/divisions of the medical center for the appropriate laboratory specialty. Duties may include, but are not limited to, orientation and evaluating the competency of assigned staff including identification of continuing education and training needs, coordinating daily activity of the lab section(s), writing or modifying technical procedures, providing technical instruction, ensuring that policies, procedures and regulatory requirements are followed, advising on course of action to follow when results or samples obtained are unacceptable, and coordinating or performing quality control reviews and method verification activities.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. Lead CLS GS-12: Applicants must have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level

Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
(A) Knowledge of medical technology applicable to a wide range of duties to solve complex problems involving diverse aspects of clinical laboratory practice.
(B) Skill to maintain, troubleshoot, and repair laboratory instrumentation.
(C) Ability to develop procedures for new tests, and modify existing procedures and methods to resolve problems relative to complex and difficult situations.
(D) Ability to manage and coordinate daily work activities and assignments in a section.
(E) Ability to provide or coordinate staff development and training. (F) Ability to provide guidance and technical direction to a wide variety of individuals including physicians, nurses, and other clinical staff regarding technical aspects of testing, specimen requirements and results.
Do you have the required experience at GS-11 and do you meet the required Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Transcript Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you MUST SUBMIT a copy of your TRANSCRIPTS with your application. Diplomas are NOT suitable substitutions for your transcripts and will not be accepted. It is the responsibility of the applicant to identity the required courses for the position that are listed in the education section. By providing a course description from the college or university if not clearly identifiable on the school's transcripts. We do NOT make assumptions form the course number that the listed courses meet the requirement. (REQUIRED)
RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.
LICENSURE/CERTIFICATION REMINDER - If the position requires a licensure/certification to qualify, you must submit a copy of your licensure/certification with your application.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected