Position Title
Budget Analyst
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OT-IMP-12768996-JRT Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 28, 2025 to Friday, August 1, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
12
13
2. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
3. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under non-temporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
4. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-12 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes assessing the impact of proposed or enacted changes in programs and regulations on salaries, travel, benefits, overtime, and related expenses on the budget; providing independent analysis of projected budget reductions and recommending funding strategies; tracking progress of allocations, pulling financial reports, and evaluating continual changes in financial plans; working with staff and independently in analyzing financial and budgetary relationships to develop recommendations for financial and/or budget actions; using CBP financial systems, to include Systems, Applications, and Products, Budget Formulation and Execution System, and ConcurGov, for funding execution; advising management on the status/availability of funds; and preparing reports on program, budget, obligations, and expenses.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
5. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-13 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes leading other staff in analyzing the financial and budgetary relationships to develop recommendations for financial and/or budget actions; communicating with management staff in all matters relating to the planning, formulating, and execution of their directorate budget; analyzing past and present budget program data to identify trends and variances; overseeing other budget analyst with training and ensuring budgets are planned, executed and accountable; reviewing program change requests for funding and proposed staffing levels in relation to current obligations and expenditures.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
6. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
7. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
8. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
9. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. In addition to the application and application questionnaire, this position requires a USA Hire online assessment, which measures critical general competencies required to perform the job. If you are required to take the USA Hire assessment, you will be emailed a unique URL to access the USA Hire system. The USA Hire online assessment must be completed within 48 hours, following the close of this announcement. You will have the opportunity to request a testing accommodation for the assessment should you have a disability covered under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). See the How to Apply and Next Steps within the Job Opportunity Announcement for additional details.

Do you acknowledge that you may be required to take an additional online USA Hire assessment, via an email link sent to you after completion of this application, and that failure to complete any portion of the assessment will remove your application from consideration?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that by not taking the additional required USA Hire assessment that I will be removed from further consideration.
11. Select a location preference from the list below. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for more information.
 A. Indianapolis, IN
 B. Washington, DC
Assessment 1
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
1. Select the option that best describes your experience writing and reviewing official reports.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have gathered basic facts or information for reports which were written and reviewed by a supervisor or other senior individual.
 C. I have independently written reports. I have provided those reports to a supervisor or other senior individual for review and approval.
 D. I have extensive experience writing reports on a regular basis and reviewing them for accuracy. I am the one sought for input on complex data requests.
2. Select the option that best describes your experience fact finding from various sources (e.g., databases, internal programs, online research) to advise and direct personnel.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have analyzed data gathered from various sources (e.g., databases, internal programs, online research), but did not use the information to direct or advise personnel.
 C. I have analyzed data gathered from various sources (e.g., databases, internal programs, online research) and made suggestions to my team lead or supervisor on how to direct and advise personnel.
 D. I have directed and advised personnel using information gathered from various sources (e.g., databases, internal programs, online research) after analysis of data was performed.
3. Select the option that best describes your experience planning, organizing, and carrying out annual and multi-year budgeting requirements

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have participated in planning, organizing, and carrying out annual and multi-year budgeting requirements under the direction of a senior employee.
 C. I have been responsible for planning, organizing, and carrying out annual and multi-year budgeting requirements.
 D. I have extensive experience planning, organizing, and carrying out annual and multi-year budgeting requirements. I have performed these tasks for multiple programs.
4. Select the option that best describes your experience communicating in writing.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written detailed reports or papers in an academic or work setting where clear guidelines for content and format exist.
 C. I have independently written descriptions and rationales for inclusion in reports or an organization's official records.
 D. I have independently written detailed descriptions and justifications for inclusion in reports or an organization's official records. I have ensured that my descriptions and justifications are clearly supported by facts.
5. Select the option that best describes your experience in responding to Congressional, interagency, or intra-agency inquiries/complaints.

 A. I have no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written responses/testimony and represented the organization on Congressional, interagency, or intra-agency inquiries based on knowledge of Federal laws, rules, regulations, policies, and procedures.
 C. I have drafted portions of responses for higher-level review on Congressional, interagency, or intra-agency inquiries based on my understanding of Federal laws, rules, regulations, policies and procedures.
6. Do you have experience conducting user-fee financial planning?

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Select the choice that best describes your ability to evaluate and analyze financial systems to identify trends to use in analysis, forecasts, models, presentations and recommendations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have limited ability to evaluate and analyze financial systems to identify trends and changes to use in analysis, forecasts, models, presentations and recommendations..
 C. I have a working ability to evaluate and analyze financial systems to identify trends and changes to use in analysis, forecasts, models, presentations and recommendations.
 D. I have extensive ability to evaluate and analyze financial systems to identify trends and changes to use in analysis, forecasts, models, presentations and recommendations.
 E. I am considered to be an expert in evaluating and analyzing financial systems to identify trends and changes to use in analysis, forecasts, models, presentations and recommendations. Others consult me for my knowledge in this area.
8. Indicate the extent to which you have developed and maintained effective relationships (liaison) with individuals internal and external to your work group, office, and organization.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have maintained relationships with individuals in my work group or office, primarily in the completion of my regular job duties or in my response to specific inquiries.
 C. I have maintained relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group and office to exchange information, resolve problems, or participate in joint task forces/teams.
 D. I have developed and maintained extensive relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group, office, and organization to resolve problems, plan joint task force/team projects, and establish long-term working relationships.
9. Select the option that best describes your experience working in or leading work-related teams whose projects focused on financial systems, financial management, financial reporting, budget, and/or payroll.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have participated as a team member on projects focused on financial systems, financial management, financial reporting, budget, and/or payroll. I have received task assignments and project goals from my supervisor or a senior specialist.
 C. I have served as a team leader on projects focused on financial systems, financial management, financial reporting, budget, and/or payroll. I have communicated task assignments and project goals to team members and monitored progress.
 D. In addition to serving as a team leader on more than one team focused on financial systems, financial management, financial reporting, budget, and/or payroll, I have ensured that team members met project goals and deadlines and evaluated individual team member performance. I have utilized incentive programs to motivate team members to exceed goals.
10. Select the option that best describes your experience planning and organizing your work and the work of others.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have planned and organized the day-to-day work of myself and my immediate work unit on a continuous basis.
 C. I have directed and overseen the planning and organization of work for a multi-unit organization. I established criteria and priorities and reviewed, amended, and consolidated work plans developed by subordinates.
 D. I have directed and overseen the mid- to long-range (i.e., quarterly or annual) planning and organization of work for my immediate work unit when there were complicating factors (e.g., conflicting priorities, work involving multiple disciplines).
11. Select the option that best describes your experience interpreting Executive Orders, OMB guidelines, and directives and applying them within and across agency lines.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have researched and applicable OMB guidelines to assist others..
 C. I have experience interpreting Executive Orders or OMB guidelines and precedents with guidance from a senior employee.
 D. I have extensive experience interpreting Executive Orders, OMB guidelines, and directives and applied them across agency lines.
12. Do you have experience serving as an expert advisor to managers and leadership on all aspects of budgeting?

 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Select the option that best describes your experience interpreting and applying accounting principles.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have completed education or training related to accounting principles, but I have not applied this knowledge in my work.
 C. I have interpreted and applied generally accepted accounting principles under the direction of a senior employee.
 D. I have interpreted and applied generally accepted accounting principles as a regular and recurring part of my work in the federal sector.
14. Select the option that best describes your experience gathering and analyzing data in order to make budget decisions.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training in analyzing and interpreting qualitative and quantitative data on identifying budget issues, but I have not applied this training on the job.
 C. I have analyzed qualitative and quantitative data on identifying budget issues and tabulated the results as part of my regular job duties.
 D. I have analyzed qualitative and quantitative data on budget issues tabulated the results, and interpreted the results as part of my regular job duties to make informed budget decisions.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected