Position Title
Laborer (Motor Vehicle Operating)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
NC-1616-ROCR-25-12804077-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 30, 2025 to Tuesday, October 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a United States Citizen?

For more information, review Employment of U.S Citizens.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.  
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
When you applied to this job, did you have any engagement with a National Park Service (NPS) Recruiter?
 A. No. I did not have any engagement with an NPS recruiter.
 B. Yes. I attended an NPS Federal Resume Webinar.
 C. Yes. At a virtual or in-person recruitment or job fair.
 D. Yes. I received an email from an NPS Recruiter.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Laborer (Motor Vehicle Operating) WG-3502-05 position. Please answer the following questions pertaining to your experience and qualifications.


Minimum Qualifications Requirements for the Laborer (Motor Vehicle Operating)


1.
Select the response below that best describes your skill and ability to carry out work assignments of a Laborer Motor Vehicle Operating (MVO) without more than normal supervision. Please provide evidence of this skill and ability in your resume. If you do not meet these ability requirements, you will not receive consideration for this position.
 I have experience and knowledge performing the full range of duties of a Laborer (MVO). I am consulted by other workers because of my expertise performing the more complicated duties of being a Laborer, especially in situations where more than ordinary skills are required. I have the experience that demonstrates the ability to independently use hand and power tools as well as operate motor vehicles transporting personnel, material, and equipment. I have extensive experience with maintaining grounds, roads, and trails, as well as experience operating light duty and heavy-duty vehicles and equipment.
 I have experience performing tasks of the work of a Laborer (MVO) independently, under limited supervision. I have limited knowledge in complex laborer skills. I have experience, with limited supervision, to use hand and power tools as well as operate motor vehicles transporting personnel, material and equipment. I have limited experience maintaining grounds, roads and trails, as well as limited experience operating light duty and heavy-duty vehicles and equipment.
 I have experience performing the work of a Laborer (MVO) under normal supervision. I do not have complex skills when it comes to Laborer tasks. I have supervised experience using hand and power tools as well as operating motor vehicles. I have little experience maintaining grounds, roads and trails, as well as little experience operating light duty and heavy-duty vehicles and equipment.
 I have performed limited use of hand and power tools as well as operating vehicles under the watchful eye of my supervisor
 I have no professional work experience in the Laborer (MVO) field


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙