Position Title
IT Specialist (SYSADMIN/OS)
Agency
Western Area Power Administration
Announcement Number
25-12794720-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 10, 2025 to Tuesday, September 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Energy?

If yes, confirm:
• You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• Your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy AND
• Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center page (https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/federal-employees/ctap/).
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center. (https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/federal-employees/ictap/)
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Phoenix, AZ
 B. Folsom, CA
 C. Loveland, CO
 D. Watertown, SD
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
11
12
13
3. Do any of your relatives work for the agency to which you are applying? If so, please list any applicable names below. Please enter N/A in the text box, if not Applicable. (Include: father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, and half sister).
4. I understand that the responses in this questionnaire must be fully supported in my online resume. I further understand that my resume must provide detailed descriptions and/or examples of my knowledge and competencies as required in the vacancy announcement, and that my failure to do so may result in my being rated "ineligible" or "not qualified" for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Instructions: To provide the hiring manager an opportunity to consider your accomplishments, you may submit/attach copies of your performance appraisals and/or incentive award justification as part of your application by uploading these documents into USA Staffing.


All current Federal employees must have at least a fully successful or equivalent performance rating or higher, to be considered for competitive placement. Competitive Federal employees who have a current unacceptable performance rating will be excluded from consideration.
 A. I am a current Federal employee, my last performance rating was fully successful (meets expectations) or equivalent, or higher.
 B. I am a current Federal employee; my last performance rating was unacceptable (fails to meet expectations).
 C. I am a new Federal employee and have not received a performance rating as of the date of this application.
 D. I am not a Federal employee; however, I will consider attaching my recent performance appraisal from my employer for consideration.
 E. I am not a Federal employee, and I do not have any performance documentation to submit for consideration.
6. In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a DOE employee in a Bargaining Unit (such as the American Federation of Government Employees Union)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Are you a Department of Energy employee who accepted the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) either through OPM's For in the Road or through DOE's DRP?
 A. Yes, I am a DOE employee who accepted the DRP through resignation or retirement.
 B. No, I am not a DOE DRP participant.
9. Are you a Department of Energy employee who is currently on DRP Administrative Leave?
 A. Yes, I am a DOE employee who is currently on DRP Administrative Leave.
 B. No, I am not a DOE employee who is currently on DRP Administrative Leave.
Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you possess IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below?
Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Two (2) Page Resume Limit

This announcement will only accept resumes up to two (2) pages in length. If more than two pages are submitted, only the first two pages will be reviewed to determine your eligibility and qualifications.  A qualified candidate's application and two (2) page resume must demonstrate at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade.
2. GS-11:
Applicants must possess one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent in difficulty and responsibility to the next lower grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. The experience need not have been in the federal government.

From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how your experience or education meets the requirements for the IT Specialist (SYSADMIN/OS), GS-2210-11 position.
 A. In addition to the basic requirements, I possess one (1) year (52 weeks) of specialized experience, equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-09) in the federal service, in (3) of the (4) following areas: • Supporting electric-utility Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) hardware and software components, including installation, configuration, and/or troubleshooting for operational continuity; • Applying basic security configurations, monitoring system health, and/or adhering to established regulatory compliance procedures within the SCADA environment; • Documenting system configurations and/or understanding foundational electric-utility SCADA architecture, including but not limited to interconnections and data flow; and • Assisting with routine system maintenance activities, including patching, backups, and/or user account management.
 B. I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or (3) three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in computer science, engineering, information science, information systems management, mathematics, operations research, statistics, or technology management, or a degree that provided a minimum of 24 semester hours in one or more of the fields identified above and required the development of adaptation of applications, systems, or networks. (You must provide a copy of your transcripts (official or unofficial) to support your claim).
 C. I do not have the experience and/or education as described above.
3. GS-12:
Applicants must possess one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent in difficulty and responsibility to the next lower grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. The experience need not have been in the federal government.

From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for the IT Specialist (SYSADMIN/OS), GS-2210-12 position.
 A. In addition to the basic requirements, I possess one (1) year (52 weeks) of specialized experience, equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-11) in the federal service, in (3) of the (4) following areas: • Managing and/or upgrading electric-utility Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems independently, including resolving complex technical issues across integrated networks; • Optimizing SCADA server performance, managing user access, and/or administering operating systems or virtualized environments in compliance with relevant standards; • Leveraging knowledge of industry regulations (e.g., NERC-CIP, FERC, FISMA) to maintain SCADA system compliance and/or assist with vulnerability assessments; • Participating in system design discussions and/or contributing to the development of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) or other critical documentation for SCADA infrastructure.
 B. I do not have the experience as described above.
4. GS-13:
Applicants must possess one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent in difficulty and responsibility to the next lower grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. The experience need not have been in the federal government.

From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for the IT Specialist (SYSADMIN/OS), GS-2210-13 position.
 A. In addition to the basic requirements, I possess one (1) year (52 weeks) of specialized experience, equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-12) in the federal service, in (3) of the (4) following areas: • Leading the strategic design, development, and/or implementation of complex, enterprise-level electric-utility Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) infrastructure solutions, ensuring adherence to evolving regulatory requirements; • Developing and/or enforcing comprehensive SCADA cybersecurity policies, leading advanced incident response, or conducting risk assessments with a strong focus on regulatory compliance; • Managing significant SCADA infrastructure projects and/or providing expert technical guidance or mentorship to others on advanced system and compliance strategies; • Advising senior management on SCADA technology roadmaps, emerging threats, and/or long-term infrastructure investment decisions.
 B. I do not have the experience as described above
Respond to the following four (4) essay questions with a 200- word or less response.  Please note: Applicants will be required to certify that responses to these essay questions are their own words, and AI was not consulted or utilized.
5. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 200 characters)
6. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 200 characters)
7. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 200 characters)
8. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 200 characters)
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
9. I certify that the responses to the essay questions they are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected