Position Title
Registered Respiratory Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTB-12765817-25-DJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 17, 2025 to Friday, July 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
2. Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education or training that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. If your resume does not support your questionnaire answers, we will not allow credit for your response(s).
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. English Language Proficiency: In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7403(f), no person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English.

Are you proficient in both spoken and written English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Education: Individuals must have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care (CoARC) or its successor.

Do you meet this requirement? A copy of your transcript must be submitted.
 A. Yes, I possess the required education stated above and have included a copy of my transcript.
 B. I meet the grandfathering provision. I was employed by the VHA as a Registered Respiratory Therapist on the effective date of the qualification standard (March 12, 2021) and have remained employed in that position.
 C. No, I do not meet this requirement.
3. LICENSURE: Do you possess a valid, current, and unrestricted license as a Registered Respiratory Therapist in a State, Territory or Commonwealth (i.e., Puerto Rico) of the United States, or District of Columbia?
 A. Yes, I understand I must submit a copy.
 B. I meet the grandfathering provision. I was employed by the VHA as a Registered Respiratory Therapist on the effective date of the qualification standard (March 12, 2021) and have remained employed in that position.
 C. No, I do not meet this requirement.
4. CREDENTIAL: Do you possess current, unrestricted credential of Registered Respiratory Therapist granted by the National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC)?
 A. Yes, I understand I must submit a copy.
 B. I meet the grandfathering provision. I was employed by the VHA as a Registered Respiratory Therapist on the effective date of the qualification standard (March 12, 2021) and have remained employed in that position.
 C. I do not meet this requirement.
5. GS-11 Grade Requirement: In addition to the basic requirements, applicants must meet these requirements to qualify for the GS-11 grade level:

Candidates must have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-09 level that demonstrates the clinical competencies described at that level, hold an active license and RRT credential.

Experience is only creditable if credentialed as a Certified Respiratory Therapist (CRT) or Registered Respiratory Therapist (RRT), the experience is in respiratory care, pulmonary function testing or polysomnography and directly related to the position being filled. To be creditable, the experience must have demonstrated the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) associated with current practice in paid employment as a CRT or RRT.

At the GS-9 level, RRTs are responsible for the following under general guidance in both inpatient and/or outpatient settings. RRTs obtain, interpret, and analyze physiological specimens and data. They consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals to ensure quality of patient care within area of specialty. They manage and maintain the airway and ventilation of the patient through the use of appropriate mechanical means. RRTs access and evaluate patients to determine and recommend intervention to develop and implement a plan of care, such as, implementing protocols, intubation, monitoring critical systems and uses advanced modes of ventilation. They provide outpatient services such as home ventilators, PAP therapy, oxygen therapy and COPD care. Demonstrated KSAs are:
1. Skill in performing therapeutic modalities related to respiratory care.
2. Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals to help provide favorable patient outcomes.
3. Skill in assessing oxygenation and ventilation.
4. Ability to perform airway management to include artificial airways and mechanical ventilation.

In addition to the requirements above, candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
1. Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals for complex respiratory care to develop care plans to provide favorable patient outcomes.
2. Skill in evaluating the efficacies of therapeutic modalities.
3. Skill in performing advanced airway and ventilation management.

Do you meet the above requirements? This must be documented in sufficient detail on your resume. Failure to do so may result in an ineligible rating.
 A. Yes, I meet this requirement.
 B. No, I do not meet this requirement.
RESUME REMINDER:  Your resume must include the following information each job listed: Job title; Duties (be as detailed as possible); Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008); Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week); Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.
VA Form 10-2850C - Application for Associated Health Occupations is a REQUIRED document. This document must be completed, signed and dated where indicated. Failure to submit this completed document will render the applicant ineligible for consideration. 
Transcript Reminder: This position has formal education requirement. You MUST SUBMIT a copy of your transcripts with your application. Unofficial is sufficient.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected