Position Title
PROGRAM MANAGER
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12797133-FODOFSCOS-IMP-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 9, 2025 to Thursday, September 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current USCIS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. The Reemployment Priority List (RPL) is the mechanism DHS uses to give reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees separated by reduction-in-force (RIF), or fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a former USCIS employee?  If so, have you met all of the following criteria?
Registered for the RPL program, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupied a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current/most recent performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent, and
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606
For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, visit 5 CFR 330 Subpart B.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
My SF-50 showing Separation - RIF. If that is not available yet, then official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who is in a permanent position that is in the competitive service (see block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type)?

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of our SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. I acknowledge the following conditions if I choose to submit my resume through the USAJOBS Resume Builder:
I understand that resumes submitted through USAJOBS Resume Builder are converted to a PDF format when they are transmitted to USA Staffing from the USAJOBS applicant interface and additional spaces/page gaps are added to resumes during the Resume Builder conversion process;
Based on the above conditions, I understand that USCIS strongly encourages me to save my resume to a PDF document and upload the PDF document instead of submitting my resume created through Resume Builder;
I understand that USCIS' human resources will only review the first 2 pages of my resume to determine eligibility/qualifications for this position;
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I have met this requirement for consideration.

(Note: Additional guidance regarding this requirement is available within the How to Submit Your Resume section of the USCIS Resume Requirement FAQs.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 D. No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.
3. Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) from the Federal Government within the last 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4.

This job is being posted for individuals who reside within the local commuting area* of the announced duty location on a permanent basis. All candidates must meet this requirement, with the exception of Refugee, Asylum and International Operations (RAIO) overseas employees approved for rotation OR unless on an approved exemption OR at an approved USCIS location. In these cases you can apply for any location.

Do you reside within the local commuting area* of the announced duty location on a permanent basis OR are a RAIO overseas employee approved for rotation OR on an approved exemption** OR at an approved USCIS location***?

*Local commuting area is defined as a distance that you can reasonably travel back and forth daily to the announced duty location from your permanent residence.

**An approved exemption is: military spouses, approved RA, or temporary long distance remote status (documentation required).

***An approved USCIS location is defined as pre authorized space designated for use by the program, office or directorate.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

The address listed on your USA Jobs profile or resume must show that you reside within the local commuting area of the announced duty location.
If on an approved exemption you must provide the most recent approval.
If at an approved USCIS location you must provide the original reporting instructions.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. If your status changes, requiring you to report to a physical location you may be directed to report to one of the duty locations listed in the original job opportunity announcement without relocation expenses.
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I understand this requirement.
By answering NO to this question, I am asking to be removed from further consideration for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a current USCIS employee who opted to take part of the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) and are currently in an Administrative Leave category?
 A. Yes.
 B. No.
7. This advertisement is open for current permanent USCIS employees of a specified office. Refer to the "Clarification from the agency" section of the vacancy announcement for office specific details. Are you a current permanent employee of the specific USCIS office listed in the "Clarification from the agency" section of this vacancy announcement? Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement, that shows you are a current permanent employee of the USCIS office (block #22 of your SF-50) listed in the announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. GS-15 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
2. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
3. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-15. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-14 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-14 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-14 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-15 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
The following section contains a multitude of question types. If you see a radio button, you can only select one response. If you see a checkbox, you may select all that apply.
4. Select your highest achievement in influencing and leading others to accomplish your agency's or organization's priorities.
 A. I have moved important initiatives forward because I understand the reality of working within organizational politics.
 B. I have gained employee commitment to an organizations’ priorities by clearly communicating my expectations and holding employees accountable to these expectations.
 C. I have guided a team or direct reports through a significant organizational change by garnering the team’s trust, by carefully listening to their concerns, then relaying their concerns to higher management, and ultimately, working with higher management to come to a mutually beneficial resolution.
 D. I have promoted interdependency by allowing my subordinates a certain amount of autonomy so that they may develop creative and innovative strategies or solutions within the team dynamic.
 E. I have been successful in leading a team to accomplish organizational priorities because I effectively communicate my vision to them and share my enthusiasm for it.
 F. None of these answers apply.
5. Which activities have you completed related to internal control systems?
 A. I assisted with drafting recommended solutions for addressing internal control weaknesses to management.
 B. I conducted internal control testing independently
 C. I approved changes to systems of control.
 D. I recommended changes to systems of control.
 E. None of the above.
6. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience managing a budget to support a mission accomplishment?
 A. I provided background research to assist others in estimating budgetary needs.
 B. I provided estimates of project needs to assist others with budgeting resources.
 C. I analyzed budgets to identify problems and advise management on possible solutions.
 D. I was responsible for the overall budget (formulating, justifying, administering) for a program area.
 E. I completed education and/or training related to managing a budget, but do not have professional experience.
 F. I have no experience, training, or education related to managing a budget.
7. Which activities have you performed concerning budgetary matters?
 A. I interpreted the impact of new and revised congressional legislation on the formulation and execution of an organization's budget.
 B. I developed new budgeting methods and techniques to forecast long-range funding needs (3 to 5 years or more into the future).
 C. I developed new budgeting methods and techniques to forecast short-range funding needs (1 to 2 years into the future).
 D. I analyzed budget requests and estimates to identify inconsistencies and imbalances.
 E. I checked budget requests for duplication and reconciled estimates with current levels of expenditures.
 F. None of the above.
8. Which funding sources have you monitored while executing a budget?
 A. Direct multi-year appropriations
 B. Allotments from different appropriations
 C. Transfers of funds from other agencies
 D. Reimbursements for services performed
 E. Revenue from working capital funds
 F. Trust accounts
 G. None of the above
9. Select the human resources regulations or guidelines that you have applied to resolve workplace disputes.
 A. Title 5 U.S.C. Chapter 71: Labor Management Relations
 B. Title 5 U.S.C. Chapter 75: Adverse Actions
 C. Title 5 U.S.C. Chapter 43: Performance Appraisal
 D. Office of Personnel Management guidelines
 E. Federal case law (e.g., Merit System Protection Board (MSPB), Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO), or Federal Labor Relations Authority (FLRA) rulings)
 F. None of the above
10. I was responsible for reviewing positions affected by new or reissued guidance of classification standards or functional guides from a governing body (e.g., Office of Personnel Management (OPM)) and reporting impacts to agency leadership.
 A. True
 B. FALSE
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
11. Have you determined human capital requirements to support an organization's strategic employee development objectives?
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Select the areas with which you have experience applying Title 5 rules and regulations to staffing.
 A. Veterans preference
 B. Hiring flexibilities
 C. Intergovernmental Personnel Act (IPA) and/or interchange agreements
 D. Qualification and eligibility requirements
 E. Job analysis
 F. Assessment processes
 G. Establishing bureau or agency-level staffing policy
 H. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
13. Have you evaluated requests for funding and proposed staffing levels in relation to current obligation and expenditures?
 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Choose the option that best describes your experience producing succinct and clear written information for program members, senior officials, and organizational leadership.
 A. I have applied numerous techniques to provide succinct and clear information regarding issues related to national security.
 B. I have directed teams or groups to provide succinct and clear information to Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 C. I have performed nuanced research to develop way to proffer information to Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 D. I have spearheaded mission specific teams in identifying definitive information to be presented to Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 E. I do not meet any of the options provided.
15. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience communicating up-to-date local, national, and/or international policies and trends that affect an organization?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to communicating policies and trends.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to communicating policies and trends but do not have professional experience.
 C. I provided training and senior-level briefings about upcoming developments in policy and trends.
 D. I supervised a team of analysts/researchers who monitored and reported trends and potential short-comings impacting the organization.
 E. I created analytical data reports for the leaders of my section/department on recurring trends affecting the organization.
16. Which sources have you researched to identify and interpret relevant information in order to execute an organization's budgetary program?
 A. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidelines and directives
 B. Executive orders
 C. Congressional legislation
 D. Federal laws and regulations
 E. Agency policies and precedents
 F. None of the above
17. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience reporting organizational performance measures?
 A. I have not had experience, education, or training related to reporting measures of organizational performance.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to reporting measures of organizational performance, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I compiled organizational performance data for analysis and subsequent reporting.
 D. I audited organizational performance-related reports to determine deficiencies/compliance with standards.
 E. I analyzed organizational performance-related reports to make recommendations to enhance operational effectiveness.
18. I have reviewed the implementation of a project or program (e.g., application of new law or procedure) and reported outcomes of my review (e.g., production, quality, service to the public) to senior leaders.
 A. True
 B. False
19. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience performing management-related activities in a non-supervisory capacity?
 A. I served as an official Point of Contact (POC) on an inter-office project, managing the project and reporting directly to a supervisor/manager.
 B. I directed the workflow within a team.
 C. I drafted Standard Operating Procedure training materials for review.
 D. I recommended changes to a process based on operational needs.
 E. None of the above.
20. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience measuring workload based on personnel requirements?
 A. I completed education and/or training related to measuring workloads but do not have professional experience.
 B. I independently monitored my workload to ensure personnel shortcomings and workload requirements were met.
 C. I participated in a work group or shared team to devise and monitor workload and personnel balances to accomplish organizational needs.
 D. I served as a primary contributor by monitoring and advising the management of my workload and the workload of others
 E. I developed a method of tracking workload demands in contrast to employee ratios based on varied levels of experience and complexity.
 F. I provided feedback on my workload balance strategic efforts and provided feedback for process improvement.
 G. None of the above
21. Select the ways in which you develop and maintain collaborative working relationships with others to resolve conflicts in a positive manner.
 A. Find commonality to all sides as a starting point for shared outcome.
 B. Actively listen and brainstorm together.
 C. Be respectful to differing opinions.
 D. Recognize the barriers to the common goal.
 E. Identify solutions all sides can agree to.
 F. None of the above.
22. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience reporting organizational performance measures?
 A. I have not had experience, education, or training related to reporting measures of organizational performance.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to reporting measures of organizational performance, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I compiled organizational performance data for analysis and subsequent reporting.
 D. I audited organizational performance-related reports to determine deficiencies/compliance with standards.
 E. I analyzed organizational performance-related reports to make recommendations to enhance operational effectiveness.
23. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience monitoring budgets for operational activities?
 A. I have no experience, education or training related to monitoring budgets.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to monitoring budgets but do not yet have professional experience.
 C. I conducted research and analysis to provide data to upper management on the status of the budget.
 D. I independently tracked and documented expenditures to monitor the annual budget.
 E. I worked as part of a team to review annual budgets for accuracy and compiled recommendations to resolve discrepancies.
24. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience in planning and executing a multi-year budgeting requirement in support of a multi-million dollar program within an organization?
 A. I provided data and input to others who were responsible for planning and executing multi-year budgeting requirements.
 B. I developed and implemented policies pertaining to the planning and executing of multi-year budgeting requirements.
 C. I directed and oversaw the policy development pertaining to the planning and executing of multi-year budgeting requirements.
 D. I completed education and/or training related to planning and executing multi-year budgeting requirements, but do not have professional experience.
 E. I have no experience, training, or education related to planning and executing multi-year budgeting requirements.
25. Indicate the extent to which you have prepared budget justifications based on staffing, facilities, and equipment.
 A. I completed education and/or training related to budget justifications, but do not have professional experience.
 B. I have reviewed budget resource requests and tracked transactions to justify obligations for staffing, facilities, and equipment.
 C. I developed budget requirements that included the reallocation of funds to support facilities, staff, and equipment.
 D. I independently developed budgets and proposed expenditures to support an office's mission while considering staffing, facilities, and equipment.
 E. None of the above.
26. If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "pass," "satisfactory," or better?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. I am a Federal employee but have not received a performance rating.
 D. Not applicable. I am not a Federal employee.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
27. Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected