Position Title
ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
EUR 25-187 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 8, 2025 to Friday, August 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Administrative Assistant position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.
1. Please select the statement that best describes your general office/computer skills and ability to prepare written correspondence, spreadsheets and other information both in writing and verbally?
 A. I have more than 2 years of office and computer skills sufficient to prepare written correspondence and spreadsheets.
 B. I have 1 to 2 years of office and computer skills sufficient to prepare written correspondence and spreadsheets.
 C. I have less than 1 year or do not possess office and computer skills sufficient to prepare written correspondence and spreadsheets.
2. Please select the statement that best describes your knowledge of information management regulations such as those related to correspondence, mail, publications and filing?
 A. I have more than 2 years of information management regulation knowledge such as those related to correspondence, mail, publications and filing. I gained this knowledge by working for an agency within the U.S. Government/DoD.
 B. I have 1 to 2 years of information management regulation knowledge such as those related to correspondence, mail, publications and filing. I gained this knowledge by working for an agency within the U.S. Government/DoD.
 C. I have more than 2 years of information management regulation knowledge such as those related to correspondence, mail, publications and filing. I gained this knowledge by working for a private (non-government) organization.
 D. I have 1 to 2 years of information management regulation knowledge such as those related to correspondence, mail, publications and filing. I gained this knowledge by working for a private (non-government) organization.
 E. I have less than 1 year of information management regulation knowledge such as those related to correspondence, mail, publications and filing. I gained this knowledge by working for an agency within the U.S. Government/DoD private (non-government) organization.
 F. I do not have this experience.
3. Please select the statement that best describes your experience planning, managing daily administrative functions, analyzing information on a variety of programs, budgeting, preparing reports and providing assistance to office staff.
 A. I have more than 2 years of experience performing the above functions with a U.S. Government organization.
 B. I have 1-2 years of experience performing the above functions with a U.S. Government organization.
 C. I have more than 2 years of experience performing the above functions with a private (non-government) organization.
 D. I have 1-2 years of experience performing the above functions with a private (non-government) organization.
 E. I have less than 1 year of experience performing the above functions with a U.S. Government organization and/or a private (non-government) organization.
 F. I do not have this experience.
4. Please select the statement that best describes your experience assisting with the development, review, interpretation and draft of regulations, directives, memoranda and policy on administrative functions including determining the extent the organization is affected and advises operating officials.
 A. My resume demonstrates more than 2 years of experience performing this task for an agency within the U.S. Government/DoD.
 B. My resume demonstrates 1 to 2 years of experience performing this task for an agency within the U.S. Government/DoD.
 C. My resume demonstrates more than 2 years of experience performing this task for a private (non-government) organization.
 D. My resume demonstrates 1 to 2 years of experience performing this task for a private (non-government) organization.
 E. My resume demonstrates less than 1 year of experience performing this task for an agency within the U.S. Government/DoD private (non-government) organization.
 F. I do not have this experience.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected