Position Title
POLICE OFFICER
Agency
U.S. Mint
Announcement Number
25-MINT-12791733-P Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 28, 2025 to Monday, September 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
6
7
8
2. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other
4. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
5. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
7. Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.
Assessment 1
Specialized experience for the TR-06 is defined as one year of experience at the GS-04 level, or equivalent in other public or private sectors, that is directly related to the position as listed in this announcement and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience for this position includes:

- Experience that provided knowledge of a body of basic laws and regulations, law enforcement operations, practices, and techniques and involved responsibility for maintaining order and protecting life and property. Creditable specialized experience may have been gained in work on a police force; through service as a military police officer; in work providing visitor protection and law enforcement in parks, forests, or other natural resource or recreational environments; in performing criminal investigative duties; or in other work that provided the required knowledge and skills.

OR

A 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree in Police Science or a comparable degree program related to the work of the position.

OR

A combination of specialized experience and education in a Police Science or a comparable degree program related to the work of the position.

* Note: Successful completion of a Federal, State, county, or municipal police academy or comparable training course that included at least 40 classroom hours of instruction in police department procedures and methods, and local law and regulations, may be substituted for a maximum of 3 months of specialized experience.
1. Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 A. I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-4 level as described above.
 B. I have successfully completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree in Police Science or a comparable degree program related to the work of the position.
 C. I have a combination of the education and experience listed above (1 and 2) in which my percentage of specialized experience and education totals to 100%. (For example: the completion of 50% requirements for a bachelor's degree and 6 months of specialized experience.)
 D. I do not meet the specialized experience as described in the previous question and do not meet the qualifying education as listed in the selections above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. Is the specialized experience and/or education you noted above listed in your resume?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. In which position(s) in your resume can this information be found? (limit 250 characters)
Specialized experience for the TR-07 is defined as one year of experience at the TR-06/GS-05 level, or equivalent in other public or private sectors, that is directly related to the position as listed in this announcement and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience for this position includes

- Experience that provided application of Federal, State or Local Laws, law enforcement operations, practices and techniques and involved responsibility for maintaining order and protecting life and property. Creditable specialized experience may have been gained in work on a police force; through service as a military police officer; in work providing visitor protection and law enforcement in parks, forests or other natural resource or recreational environments; in performing criminal investigative duties; or in other work that provided the required knowledge and skills.
4. Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 A. I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the TR-6/GS-5 level as described above.
 B. I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. Is the specialized experience you noted above, listed in your resume?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. In which position(s) in your resume can this information be found? (limit 250 characters)
Specialized experience for the TR-8 is defined as one year of experience at the TR-07/GS-06 level, or equivalent in other public or private sectors, that is directly related to the position as listed in this announcement and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience for this position includes:
-Experience that provided the application of Federal, State or Local Laws and regulations, law enforcement operations, practices and techniques, investigating and resolving incidents and involved responsibility for maintaining order and protecting life and property.
Creditable specialized experience may have been gained in work on a police force; through service as a military police officer; in work providing visitor protection and law enforcement in parks, forests or other natural resource or recreational environments; in performing criminal investigative duties; or in other work that provided the required knowledge and skills.


7. Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 A. I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the TR-07/GS-06 level as described above.
 B. I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.
8. Is the specialized experience you noted above, listed in your resume?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. In which position(s) in your resume can this information be found? (limit 250 characters)
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
10. Have you successfully completed an agency approved basic formal police-training course conducted by the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Please indicate where in your resume this information can be found by indicating the dates(s) and location of your education and/or experience.
Please submit proof of completion.
12. Which of the following describes your experience relating to police line duties and auxiliary operations work?
 A. I have led a project that involved police administration, police line duties and auxiliary operations issues.
 B. I have assisted in the physical search of individuals, detaining, and or arresting persons considered violent, mentally disturbed or intoxicated, and who are potentially bearing arms.
 C. I have experience serving as a source of assistance to people during emergency situations.
 D. I have experience investigating violations of laws, rules, and regulations involving accidents, misconduct, and misdemeanor or felony crimes.
 E. I have experience enforcing agency or business rules and regulations relating to law enforcement.
 F. I have experience preventing accidents, congestion, and parking problems.
 G. I have experience issuing citations, giving warnings, and making arrests if necessary.
 H. I have experience performing patrol duties such as deterrence to crime and other violations of laws, rules, and regulations.
 I. I have experience inspecting persons, packages, briefings, luggage and staying alert for explosive devices or weapons.
 J. I have experience inspecting credentials and identification of visitors, employees, or persons and evaluating their purpose or authority to enter facilities, checkpoints, and/or secure locations.
 K. None of the above.
13. Please indicate where in your resume this information can be found by indicating the dates(s) and location of your education and/or experience. (limit 250 characters)
14. Please indicate which of the following police procedures you have demonstrated experience in performing.
 A. Enforce policies and procedures within an area of jurisdiction.
 B. Protect buildings and grounds.
 C. Conduct proper apprehension and exercise arrest authority.
 D. Conduct preliminary investigations of incidents.
 E. Efficient handling of firearms.
 F. None of the above.
15. Please indicate which of the following describes your experience to communicate orally.
 A. I have experience providing verbal information, answering questions, and assisting persons needing help during emergency situations.
 B. I have experience communicating with a wide variety of people, including immediate supervisors and the public, through presenting information at briefings, meetings, etc. on routine or operational issues.
 C. I have given verbal instructions to others to direct them to accomplish a task, including others who have been uninterested, hostile, or uncooperative.
 D. None of the above.
16. Which of the following best describes your experience writing police reports?
 A. I have prepared incident reports covering activities and events occurring over the course of a shift.
 B. I have documented interviews and/or interrogations.
 C. I have successfully completed college courses that included writing narrative reports.
 D. I received training on completing search warrant applications during a criminal justice internship with a law enforcement agency or in an accredited college level criminal justice course.
 E. None of the above.
17. Please indicate which of the following best describes your experience in presenting information to various audiences.
 A. I have given presentations in a professional work environment.
 B. I have communicated with a wide variety of people, including immediate supervisors and the public, through presenting information at briefings, meetings, etc. on routine or operational issues.
 C. I have experience communicating with a wide variety of people, including immediate supervisors and the public.
 D. I have not performed any of the above tasks.
18. Which of the following describes your experience interacting positively with a diverse community?
 A. Served as a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, local or military police department, in a diverse community of various cultures, ethnic and social economic backgrounds.
 B. Served as a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, local or military police department, I have participated in programs such as but not limited to: Police Boys and Girls Club, Police Athletic League, Law Enforcement Explorer Scout program, etc.
 C. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, local or military police department, I have coordinated diversity programs within the department and community.
 D. As a law enforcement official of a federal, state, county, local or military police department, I have participated in diversity awareness activities within the workplace.
 E. None of the above.
19. Please indicate where in your resume this information can be found by indicating the dates(s) and location of your experience. (limit 250 characters)
20. Please indicate which of the following police procedures you have demonstrated experience performing.
 A. I have maintained records and prepared reports covering activities and events occurring over the course of a shift.
 B. I have enforced Federal, State, and local laws and regulations for protection of persons, property, and facilities.
 C. I have experience with the rights of suspects, the laws of search and seizure, constraints on the use of force, including deadly force, and the civil rights of individuals.
 D. I am experienced in weapons systems and the efficient handling of firearms.
 E. I have education and/or training performing police procedures.
 F. None of the above.
21. Please indicate which of the following police practices you have demonstrated experience.
 A. Operating a Police Radio.
 B. Inspecting Credentials.
 C. Inspecting property.
 D. Guarding a facility.
 E. Civil Disturbance Response.
 F. Bomb and explosive identification.
 G. Special Weapons
 H. Working a perimeter.
 I. X-ray machines.
 J. Metal detector operation.
 K. Traffic control.
 L. Alarm and Security Systems.
 M. I have education and/or training following special police practices.
 N. None of the above.
22. Please select all that apply describing your experience to make a decision based on the evaluation of facts and circumstances.
 A. Investigated and reported suspicious conduct and circumstances and independently decided action and/or level of force.
 B. Used judgment in selecting correct rules and procedures in legal and threatening situations and proper techniques to enforce the law.
 C. Decided on initiation of emergency procedures, such as sounding of alarms, protection of personnel in area, security of property involved, and the containment of person or things which precipitated the emergency.
 D. Completed education/training on protection, investigation and prevention of criminal activity.
 E. None of the above.
23. Please indicate which of the following most accurately describes your experience to investigate, analyze facts, and prepare reports.
 A. I have conducted full investigations of minor crimes, accidents, and public safety incidents.
 B. I have had training to investigate, analyze facts, and prepare reports but have not yet performed the duties.
 C. I have collected information on common law enforcement or public safety incidents, e.g. prepared reports on serious traffic accidents or workplace or domestic disturbances.
 D. I have completed reports on common public safety or property protection situations, e.g., interviewed principals and witnesses about traffic violations or workplace disturbances.
 E. I have no education or training to investigate, analyze facts, and prepare reports.
24.  Please indicate your experience in investigating and processing of crime scenes.
 A. I have completed educational courses in evidence collection and crime scene investigation preservation; however I have no actual experience in the area.
 B. I am considered a subject matter expert in the field of evidence collection and crime scene investigation preservation where others rely on my experience to perform their duties.
 C. I have collected evidence and processed crime scenes in major (felony) crimes and major (fatality and injury) traffic accident investigations in order to present them in a judicial procedure.
 D. None of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected