Position Title
Health Technician - Hearing Instrument Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12727839-25-JYM Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, June 5, 2025 to Tuesday, August 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Health Technician - Hearing Instrument Specialist position with our Miami VA Healthcare System.  We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.  Full performance level for this position is GS-06. Grade levels that you may be selected for are GS-05 and G-6.









BASIC REQUIREMENTS The following section is used to determine if you meet the basic requirements for this vacancy. Please choose the most appropriate answer in response to the following questions.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Citizenship

Must be a Citizen of the United States. (Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified candidates in accordance with VA policy.

Are you a United States Citizen?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. English Language Proficiency.

Health Technician (HIS) candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7403(f).

Are you proficient in both written and spoken English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Experience and Education.

Experience. Completion of the Department of Labor Apprenticeship Program for Hearing Aid Specialists;

OR

Education. Successful completion of two academic years above high school that includes coursework related to the field: hearing science, human anatomy and physiology, hearing instrument science, gerontology, psychology or other general healthcare areas

Do you meet this experience or education requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Licensure or Registration.

Individuals must hold a full, current, and unrestricted license or registration to practice as a HIS in a state, territory, commonwealth, or the District of Columbia. (1) Loss of Licensure or Registration. A Health Technician (HIS) who fails to maintain the required licensure or registration must be removed from the occupation, which may also result in termination of employment.

Do you have a current, full, and unrestricted license or registration to practice as a Hearing Instrument Specialist in a state, territory, commonwealth, or DC?

**NOTE: You MUST submit documentation.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Board Certification

Individuals must hold active board certification from the National Board for Certification in Hearing Instrument Sciences (NBC-HIS).

Exception for Non-Board Certified Health Technician (HIS).

(a) Non-board certified applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for appointment, may be given a temporary appointment as a graduate Health Technician (HIS) under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(c)(2)(B).
(b) Non-board certified individuals shall only provide care under the supervision of a licensed audiologist.
(c) Non-board certified individuals may only be appointed at the entry level and may not be promoted/converted until board certification is obtained.
(d) Temporary appointments of non-board certified Health Technician (HIS) may not be extended beyond two years or converted to a new temporary appointment.

Do you meet the board certification requirement?



 A. Yes
 B. No
GRADE LEVEL REQUIREMENTS for Health Technician - Hearing Instrument Specialist - The following is used to determine the grade requirements for this position. Please answer the following questions by selecting the most appropriate response in regard to your knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs).  Please be as detailed as possible in your resume.  No assumptions will be made.




Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
6. Health Technician - Hearing Instrument Specialist, GS-05

Experience. None beyond the basic requirements.

Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Knowledge of basic anatomy of the head and neck
Knowledge of basic infection control procedures and guidelines.
Skill in using basic computer software to complete tasks such as using email, creating spreadsheets and word processing.
Ability to communicate orally and in writing.
Ability to follow verbal and written instructions.
Ability to maintain stock and supply level inventories
Do you meet the grade requirements for the GS-5 grade level?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Health Technician - Hearing Instrument Specialist, GS-06  (Full Performance Level)

Experience. One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-6).  (a) Knowledge of basic anatomy of the head and neck. (b) Knowledge of basic infection control procedures and guidelines. (c) Skill in using basic computer software to complete tasks such as using email, creating spreadsheets and word processing. (d) Ability to communicate orally and in writing. (e) Ability to follow verbal and written instructions. (f) Ability to maintain stock and supply level inventories.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Knowledge of normal and abnormal ear anatomy.
Knowledge of hearing aids, hearing assistive technology, hearing aid manufacturers and manufacturer software.
Skill in documenting patient procedures and patient devices
Skill in providing patient education for hearing aid use, to include assisting patient with hearing aid insertion, removal and hygiene (cleaning and disinfection).
Ability to provide patient education and training regarding hearing loss and communication strategies for various listening situations.
Ability to solve problems or make decisions regarding hearing aids, hearing assistive technology and patient care that is consistent with the documented and co-signed plan of care under the supervision of an audiologist.
Ability to prepare patient, equipment, and/or environment for audiology procedures.
Ability to provide triage of patient telephone calls or audiology requests.
Do you meet the grade requirements for the GS-6 grade level?


 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Verification Statement - Select the appropriate answer to the statement below. Failure to provide an answer will result in your application not being considered for this position.

I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes, I understand the information provided above and certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
 B. No, I do not certify this information and do not wish to be considered for this position.
Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each position listed: Job Title; Grade Level - if applicable; Duties (be as detailed as possible); Employment dates (month and year started and ended) (e.g., June 2007 to April 2008); and hours worked per week. Be aware that your answers will be verified against the information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we can fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

Transcript - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.

Certification - Proof of current certification, licensure or registration (if applicable)

SF-50 for Federal Employees - If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date (shown in box 4) within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess the 1 year specialized experience, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50. The yearly Cost of Living Adjustment SF-50, issued in January, does not prove a full year of specialized experience. Monetary or time off award SF-50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted. Examples of appropriate SF-50's include: Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old.

NOTE: Required documents WILL NOT be accepted after closing date of the announcement.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected