Position Title
Building Manager (Unaccompanied Housing)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
PEN 25-12757660 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 3, 2025 to Thursday, July 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for this position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.

1. Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform as a Building Manager, NF03.
 A. I have two (2) or more years' experience in a related field that demonstrates my knowledge of this position.
 B. I have between six (6) months and two (2) years' experience in a related field that demonstrates my knowledge of this position.
 C. I have less than six (6) months experience in a related field that demonstrates my knowledge of this position.
 D. I do not have experience in a related field.
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
2. Select the appropriate experience level with the following: computer data entry and submitting work requests and/or trouble calls regarding minor maintenance issues such as, but not limited to: light fixtures, door locks, fire safety equipment, and minor furnishings.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
3. Select the appropriate experience level with the following: conducting new resident visits to review the assigned furnishings and equipment inventory and help orient residents to their new accommodations, including building or campus common areas and amenities. Enforcing local UH guest and visitor policies. Ensuring guests are escorted at all times by a building resident, UH staff member or Resident Advisor (RA). Providing quality customer service for all internal and external customers, presenting neat, clean and professional appearance at all times.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
4. Select the appropriate experience level with the following: performing minor preventive maintenance to furnishings and appliances to ensure compliance with warranties and to maintain functionality. This may include: changing clock batteries; changing light bulbs in fixtures that are accessible with no more than a six-foot ladder; lubricating the locks and hinges on doors; tightening furnishings hardware and screws; minor furnishings repairs, such as gluing joints and cleaning lint traps on dryer vents; etc. Coordinating with the complex manager, facility liaison or Public Works staff concerning maintenance problems regarding the interior, exterior or grounds and outstanding trouble calls in their assigned building(s).
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected