Position Title
Custodial Worker Supervisor
Agency
Pacific Air Forces
Announcement Number
25-8TFSVL839538 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 8, 2025 to Wednesday, October 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and one every three years thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 Yes.
 No.


3.
To be considered for employment at this location, the incumbent must be a U.S. Citizen or legal U.S. Resident residing in/around the area as noted in the Job Opportunity Announcement.

Do you meet these requirements?
 Yes, I am a U.S. Citizen or legal U.S. Resident residing in/around the area.
 No, I do meet the above requirements.


4.
Do you currently hold SOFA status? If yes, please provide supporting documentation.
 Yes
 No


5.
The Non-Appropriated Fund Personnel Program Management and Administrative Guide prohibits the employment of persons less than 16 years of age. Are you 16 years of age or older?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙