Position Title
SUPERVISORY PROGRAM ANALYST
Agency
Organization of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
Announcement Number
JCS-25-12782170-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, August 19, 2025 to Tuesday, September 2, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions and you:
• have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more OR
• retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more?

If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. Please also provide your disability letter which includes the combined service connected disability percentage rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15((SF-15 (PDF file)).  .

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a position with higher graded promotional potential than previously held?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you applying to be considered under Executive Order (EO) 12721? You must have been employed overseas as an Appropriated Fund employee and be eligible to apply in accordance with EO 12721. You must submit a copy of your SF-50.

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you applying for an appointment under one of the  OPM Interchange agreements (i.e., NAF, TSA, U.S. Postal Service, FAA, VA, etc.) 
 
You must be on a permanent position that is equivalent to the grade level of this position or higher in the Federal Service.
 
If eligible, submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status and indicating the highest grade you have held. 
 
For more information, review Interchange Agreement with Other Merit Systems.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for Schedule A Disability appointments?

If eligible, provide proof of disability with appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

For more information, review https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/individuals-with-disabilities
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. .

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 A. Yes
 B. No
15. Were you formerly employed as a federal civilian on a permanent competitive service appointment below the target grade of the advertised position, AND you have not been separated from federal employment for at least 1-year (from the date of this application) OR you did not receive at least a Fully Successful (or equivalent) performance rating in your most recent career/career-conditional position?

If eligible, submit:
A copy of your most recent separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting:
you held a career or career-conditional appointment (Tenure 1 or 2); AND
your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).
 A. Yes
 B. No
16. Were you formerly employed as a federal civilian on a permanent competitive service appointment at or above the target grade of the advertised position? 
                                                                                              OR
Were you formerly employed as a federal civilian on a permanent competitive service appointment below the target grade of the advertised position AND your date of separation was 1 or more years ago (from the date of your application) AND you received at least a Fully Successfully (or equivalent) rating of record in your most recent Career/Career-conditional position?   

If eligible, submit:
A copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting:
you held a career or career-conditional appointment (Tenure 1 or 2); AND
your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).
 
A copy of your performance rating from your most recent permanent federal competitive service position.  Your performance rating must reflect at least a Fully Successful (or equivalent) rating.
 A. Yes
 B. No
17. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and are applying a for a promotion?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).



 A. Yes
 B. No
18. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and have held a position at or above the target grade for this position?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).


 A. Yes
 B. No
19. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
are entitled to veterans preference?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
20. Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes your highest-level of experience for the Supervisory Program Analyst (Demonstrations) GS-0343-15 position. To be creditable, specialized experience must be at the next lower grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. Read all of the statements below completely before making your selection.

 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade-level (GS-14) in the federal service which is in or directly related to the line of work of the position. Creditable specialized experience includes: Demonstrated ability to successfully lead diverse teams in planning and executing large scale multi-national events. (e.g operations/exercises/demonstrations/assessments); Demonstrated ability to tactfully assimilate often diverse viewpoints from mission partners to coalesce on common interoperability goals and objectives; Knowledge of applicable Federal and DoD rules and regulations regarding Command, Control, Communications and Computer (C4) information and technical exchanges with foreign mission partners; Demonstrated leadership of US military and civilian personnel during periods of change and/or crisis; Demonstrated ability to successfully execute assigned missions during high-tempo, high-stress operations; Demonstrated ability to develop innovative approaches to overcome mission challenges. (Experience must be reflected in resume)
 B. My experience is not reflected in the statements above.
2. From the following please select all you have knowledge or working experience utilizing to plan, coordinate, and provide primary interface between capability developers, coalition, members, Allies, and NATO on a job. (Select all that apply)

 A. Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS) policies and procedures.
 B. Acquisition policies and procedures as defined in public law
 C. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) directives
 D. DoD acquisition policies (DOD 5000 Series)
 E. Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)
 F. Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation (DFAR)
 G. Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instructions (CJCSI),
 H. J6 Acquisition supporting regulations
 I. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response)
3. Please select a response that describes your ability to apply a wide range of analytical and evaluative techniques along with detailed knowledge of multi-national military operations planning and execution (this may include operations, exercises, demonstrations, or assessments).

 A. I have broad and deep experience successfully leading diverse teams in planning and executing large scale multi-national military evolutions. I performed this task independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 B. I have some experience leading diverse teams in planning and executing various sized multi-national military evolutions. I performed this task with only occasional oversight by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 C. I participated on teams that planned and executed various sized multi-national military evolutions. While I was not the team lead, I operated with only occasional oversight by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 D. I was a participant in multi-national military evolutions, but was not involved in the planning.
 E. I have no knowledge or experience in multi-national military evolutions.
4. Please select a response that describes your ability to apply a wide range of analytical and evaluative techniques along with detailed knowledge of the Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution System (PPBES) process, as it supports Doctrine, Organization, Training, Material, Leadership and Education, Personnel, Facilities and Policy (DOTMLPF-P) objectives and requirements to develop management guidance for the Coalition Interoperability Demonstrations and Assessments planning and execution, and assesses effectiveness of applicable program development and implement improvements to the process.

 A. Applying a wide range of analytical and evaluative techniques along with detailed knowledge of the Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution System (PPBES) process, as it supports Doctrine, Organization, Training, Material, Leadership and Education, Personnel, Facilities and Policy (DOTMLPF-P) objectives and requirements sufficient to develop management guidance for the Coalition Interoperability Demonstrations and Assessments planning and execution, and assesses effectiveness of applicable program development and implement improvements to the process has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 B. I have applied a wide range of analytical and evaluative techniques along with detailed knowledge of the Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution System (PPBES) process, as it supports Doctrine, Organization, Training, Material, Leadership and Education, Personnel, Facilities and Policy (DOTMLPF-P) objectives and requirements sufficient to develop management guidance for the Coalition Interoperability Demonstrations and Assessments planning and execution, and assesses effectiveness of applicable program development and implement improvements to the process as a regular part of a job, I perform this task independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 C. I have applied a wide range of analytical and evaluative techniques along with detailed knowledge of the Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution System (PPBES) process, as it supports Doctrine, Organization, Training, Material, Leadership and Education, Personnel, Facilities and Policy (DOTMLPF-P) objectives and requirements sufficient to develop management guidance for the Coalition Interoperability Demonstrations and Assessments planning and execution, and assesses effectiveness of applicable program development and implement improvements to the process under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 D. I have participated on a team that has applied a wide range of analytical and evaluative techniques along with detailed knowledge of the Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution System (PPBES) process, as it supports Doctrine, Organization, Training, Material, Leadership and Education, Personnel, Facilities and Policy (DOTMLPF-P) objectives and requirements sufficient to develop management guidance for the Coalition Interoperability Demonstrations and Assessments planning and execution, and assesses effectiveness of applicable program development and implement improvements to the process but have not performed this task independently on a job.
 E. I have not had experience or training in applying a wide range of analytical and evaluative techniques to develop sound strategies for resources and prioritization.
5. Please select a response that describes your knowledge of applicable Federal and DoD rules and regulations regarding Command, Control, Communications and Computer (C4) information and technical exchanges with foreign mission partners.

 A. I have comprehensive knowledge of those rules and regulations as they pertain to foreign mission partner information and technical exchanges.
 B. I have some knowledge of those rules and regulations as they pertain to foreign mission partner information and technical exchanges.
 C. I have top-level awareness of those rules and regulations as they pertain to foreign mission partner information and technical exchanges.
 D. I have no knowledge or awareness of those rules and regulations as they pertain to foreign mission partner information and technical exchanges.
6. Please select the statement that describes your ability to collaborate and coordinate with senior military and civilian representatives from other nations and international organizations to achieve appropriate alignment and interoperability with evolving U.S. Command, Control, Communications and Computer (C4) capabilities.

 A. I have participated on a team that has collaborated and coordinated with senior military and civilian representatives from other nations and international organizations to achieve appropriate alignment and interoperability with evolving U.S. Command, Control, Communications and Computer (C4) capabilities.
 B. I have collaborated and coordinated with senior military and civilian representatives from other nations and international organizations to achieve appropriate alignment and interoperability with evolving U.S. Command, Control, Communications and Computer (C4) capabilities as a regular part of a job. I perform this task independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 C. I have collaborated and coordinated with senior military and civilian representatives from other nations and international organizations to achieve appropriate alignment and interoperability with evolving U.S. Command, Control, Communications and Computer (C4) capabilities on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 D. Collaborating and coordinating with senior military and civilian representatives from other nations and international organizations to achieve appropriate alignment and interoperability with evolving U.S. Command, Control, Communications and Computer (C4) capabilities has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely without supervision, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 E. I have not had experience in collaborating and coordinating with senior military and civilian representatives from other nations and international organizations to achieve appropriate alignment and interoperability with evolving U.S. Command, Control, Communications and Computer (C4) capabilities.
7. Please select the statement that describes your ability to successfully execute assigned missions during high-tempo, high-stress operations.

 A. I have extensive history of successfully completing assigned missions and projects while overcoming significant operational, resource and/or delivery schedule challenges.
 B. I have some history of successfully completing assigned missions and projects while overcoming significant operational, resource or delivery schedule challenges.
 C. I occasionally completed assigned missions and projects while overcoming significant operational, resource or delivery schedule challenges.
 D. I partially completed assigned missions and projects due to significant operational, resource or delivery schedule challenges.
 E. I did not encounter significant operational, resource or delivery schedule challenges while completing assigned missions or projects.
8. Please select the response that best describe your ability to derive sufficient information of C4 assessments directly related to fostering interoperability and integration of major DoD C4 systems within specified campaigns and within areas of operation that are either fielded or planned for fielding.

 A. Applying my ability to derive sufficient information of C4 assessments directly related to fostering interoperability and integration of major DoD C4 systems within specified campaigns and within areas of operation that are either fielded or planned for fielding has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 B. I have participated on a team that has derived sufficient information of C4 assessments directly related to fostering interoperability and integration of major DoD C4 systems within specified campaigns and within areas of operation that are either fielded or planned for fielding but have not performed this task independently on a job.
 C. I have used my ability to derive sufficient information of C4 assessments directly related to fostering interoperability and integration of major DoD C4 systems within specified campaigns and within areas of operation that are either fielded or planned for fielding as a regular part of a job, I perform this task independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 D. I have derived sufficient information of C4 assessments directly related to fostering interoperability and integration of major DoD C4 systems within specified campaigns and within areas of operation that are either fielded or planned for fielding under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 E. I have not had experience or training in pulling sufficient information of C4 assessments directly related to fostering interoperability and integration of major DoD C4 systems within specified campaigns and within areas of operation that are either fielded or planned for fielding.
9. Please select the response that describes your knowledge and understanding of Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education, Personnel, Facilities and Policy DOTMLPF-P requirements for coalition interoperability to achieve confidence of high-ranking members of Combatant Commands (CCMDs)/Military Services/Agencies and DoD staff in providing recommendations and assessing options for the allocation of funding of major C4 Systems.

 A. Applying my knowledge and understanding of Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education, Personnel, Facilities and Policy DOTMLPF-P requirements for coalition interoperability to achieve confidence of high-ranking members of Combatant Commands (CCMDs)/Military Services/Agencies and DoD staff in providing recommendations and assessing options for the allocation of funding of major C4 Systems has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task
 B. I have participated on a team that has applied their knowledge and understanding of Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education, Personnel, Facilities and Policy DOTMLPF-P requirements for coalition interoperability to achieve confidence of high-ranking members of Combatant Commands (CCMDs)/Military Services/Agencies and DoD staff in providing recommendations and assessing options for the allocation of funding of major C4 Systems, but have not performed this task independently on a job.
 C. I have not had experience or training in applying the knowledge and understanding of Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education, Personnel, Facilities and Policy DOTMLPF-P requirements for coalition interoperability.
 D. I have applied my knowledge and understanding of Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education, Personnel, Facilities and Policy DOTMLPF-P requirements for coalition interoperability to achieve confidence of high-ranking members of Combatant Commands (CCMDs)/Military Services/Agencies and DoD staff in providing recommendations and assessing options for the allocation of funding of major C4 Systems as a regular part of a job, I perform this task independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 E. I have applied my knowledge and understanding of Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education, Personnel, Facilities and Policy DOTMLPF-P requirements for coalition interoperability to achieve confidence of high-ranking members of Combatant Commands (CCMDs)/Military Services/Agencies and DoD staff in providing recommendations and assessing options for the allocation of funding of major C4 Systems under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures
10. Please select the statement that best describes your ability to develop innovative approaches to overcome mission challenges, be they budgetary, operational, resource or personnel driven.

 A. I have extensive documented experience in developing innovative methods and plans to overcome operational and administrative challenges.
 B. I have some experience in developing innovative methods and plans to overcome operational and administrative challenges.
 C. I have observed others developing innovative methods and plans to overcome operational and administrative challenges.
 D. I have no experience, nor observations of others developing innovative methods and plans to overcome operational and administrative challenges.
11. Please select the statement that describes your ability to lead other analysts and working groups in team efforts to work effectively with senior DoD and international counterparts in planning decision-focused hearings, drafting reports and analysis, and providing on-the-spot advice to Joint Staff, Combatant Command (CCMD), Service, and Agency committee staff members and conference sessions.

 A. I have not had experience or training in leading other analysts and working groups in team efforts to work effectively with senior DoD and international counterparts in planning decision-focused hearings, drafting reports and analysis, and providing on-the-spot advice to Joint Staff, Combatant Command (CCMD), Service, and Agency committee staff members and conference sessions
 B. I have used my ability to lead other analysts and working groups in team efforts to work effectively with senior DoD and international counterparts in planning decision-focused hearings, drafting reports and analysis, and providing on-the-spot advice to Joint Staff, Combatant Command (CCMD), Service, and Agency committee staff members and conference sessions as a regular part of a job, I perform this task independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 C. I have lead other analysts and working groups in team efforts to work effectively with senior DoD and international counterparts in planning decision-focused hearings, drafting reports and analysis, and providing on-the-spot advice to Joint Staff, Combatant Command (CCMD), Service, and Agency committee staff members and conference sessions under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 D. I have participated on a team that has lead other analysts and working groups in team efforts to work effectively with senior DoD and international counterparts in planning decision-focused hearings, drafting reports and analysis, and providing on-the-spot advice to Joint Staff, Combatant Command (CCMD), Service, and Agency committee staff members and conference sessions but have not performed this task independently on a job.
 E. Leading other analysts and working groups in team efforts to work effectively with senior DoD and international counterparts in planning decision-focused hearings, drafting reports and analysis, and providing on-the-spot advice to Joint Staff, Combatant Command (CCMD), Service, and Agency committee staff members and conference sessions has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
12. Of the following duties, select all that you have utilized for the management of employees and programs? (Select all that apply)

 A. Direct executive-staff through subordinate GS-14 and O-5 supervisors
 B. Assign and review work of subordinates
 C. Approve full range of personnel management actions
 D. Approve and implement organizational change proposals recommended by subordinate supervisors
 E. Develop long-range organizational plans and goals
 F. Provide management oversight and direction.
 G. Provide guidance for functional managers and subordinate supervisors to facilitate organizational effectiveness and efficiency.
 H. None of the above (If selected, this should be your only response)
13. Which of the following managerial functions do you have documented working experience? (Select all that apply)

 A. Effectuate Minor disciplinary measures
 B. Recommending action in serious cases
 C. Identifying developmental and training needs of employees
 D. Providing development and training
 E. Discover ways to improve production or increase the quality of work.
 F. Find ways to promote team building.
 G. None of the above (If selected, this should be your only response)
14. Please select the response that best describes your documented leadership of US military and/or civilian personnel during periods of organizational change or crisis.

 A. I have extensive history of successfully leading military and civilian work forces during periods of significant change and crisis.
 B. I have some history of successfully leading military and civilian work forces during periods of significant change and crisis.
 C. I occasionally lead military and civilian work forces during periods of significant change and crisis.
 D. I participated as a military and/or civilian team member during periods of organizational change or crisis
 E. I did not encounter significant organizational change or crisis during my previous employment.
15. From the following list of communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied. (Select all that apply)

 A. Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective.
 B. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments.
 C. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff.
 D. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations.
 E. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals.
 F. Organizes work, sets priorities, and determines resource requirements.
 G. Implements and/or utilizes strategic plans on a daily basis.
 H. None of the above (If selected, this should be your only response)
16. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience collaborating and coordinating with senior military and civilian representatives from other nations and international organizations to achieve appropriate alignment and interoperability with evolving U.S. C4 capabilities

 A. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, without supervision, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 B. I have performed this task I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, often independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 C. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 D. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 E. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected