Position Title
COMMUNITY RECREATION MANAGER
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12755352 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 2, 2025 to Wednesday, July 16, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience and/or education to qualify for Recreation Specialist - Community Recreation, NF-0188-03. Failure to respond to the questionnaire will result in disqualification.
1. What is your experience level in managing a Recreation Program?
 A. I do not have experience managing a Recreation Program.
 B. I have less than one (1) year of experience managing a Recreation Program.
 C. I have between two (2) and three (3) years of experience managing a Recreation Program.
 D. I have between one (1) and three (3) years of experience managing a Recreation Program within the DoD/MWR.
 E. I have more than three (3) years of experience managing a Recreation Program within the DoD/MWR.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. Are you available for an irregular tour, which includes nights, weekends and/or holiday work to cover all operational hours and special events?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I understand I must have a Valid Drivers License to be considered for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. How many years of experience do you have in measuring program performance, customer relations, personnel utilization and cost to determine where adverse trends are developing and take the necessary correction action?
 A. I have one (1) year of experience in measuring program performance, customer relations, personnel utilization and cost to determine where adverse trends are developing and take the necessary corrective action.
 B. I have two (2) to three (3) years of experience in measuring program performance, customer relations, personnel utilization and cost to determine where adverse trends are developing and take the necessary corrective action.
 C. I have more than three (3) years of experience in measuring program performance, customer relations, personnel utilization and cost to determine where adverse trends are developing and take the necessary corrective action.
 D. I do not have any experience.
5. Describe your knowledge and experience in establishing and conducting ongoing preventative maintenance program for the facilities, equipment and vehicles to provide for safe and reliable service.
 A. I have one (1) year of experience/knowledge in establishing and conducting ongoing preventive maintenance program for the facilities, equipment and vehicles to provide for safe and reliable service.
 B. I have two (2) years of experience/knowledge in establishing and conducting ongoing preventive maintenance program for the facilities, equipment and vehicles to provide for safe and reliable service.
 C. I have more than three (3)years of experience/knowledge in establishing and conducting ongoing preventive maintenance program for the facilities, equipment and vehicles to provide for safe and reliable service.
 D. I have no experience as described above.
6. What experience do you have in preparing an annual operating budget and staying within established budget?
 A. I do not have any experience in preparing an annual operating budget.
 B. I have less than two (2) years of experience in preparing the annual operating budget and have maintained the established budget.
 C. I have between two (2) and three (3) years of experience in preparing the annual operating budget and have maintained the established budget.
 D. I have at least four (4) years of experience in preparing the annual operating budget and have maintained the established budget.
7. Choose the statement that best describes your work experience in planning, coordinating, preparing, and executing annual operating budgets both Non-appropriated Fund (NAF) and Appropriated Fun (APF).
 A. I have no documented experience as described above.
 B. I have between one (1) and two (2) years of experience in planning, coordinating, preparing, and executing annual operating budgets both Non-appropriated Fund (NAF) and Appropriated Fund (APF)
 C. I have between three (3) and five (5) years of experience in planning, coordinating, preparing, and executing annual operating budgets both Non-appropriated Fund (NAF) and Appropriated Fund (APF)
 D. I have five (5) or more years of experience in planning, coordinating, preparing, and executing annual operating budgets both Non-appropriated Fund (NAF) and Appropriated Fund (APF)
8. Do you possess a comprehensive knowledge of wide range concepts, principles and practices relating to the authorization and development of Liberty Single Sailor Program, Auto Skills Center, Community Recreation, Outdoor Recreation, Library and Information, Tickets and Travel.
 A. I have less than two (2) years knowledge of authorization and development of the above-mentioned programs.
 B. I have between two (2) and four (4) years knowledge of authorization and development of the above-mentioned programs.
 C. I have more than five (5) years knowledge of authorization and development of the above-mentioned programs.
 D. I have no experience as described above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected