Position Title
ELECTRICIAN
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERH250342691099HW Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 27, 2025 to Friday, September 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Electrician position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
1. From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Electrician duties without more than normal supervision.

 A. I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex tasks of an Electrician such as install, alter, repair, troubleshoot, and test parts of electrical systems such as motors, generators, controllers, interior communication equipment, switchboards, transformers, panels, appliances, intercoms, telephone systems and equipment, and various warning, indicating, monitoring and detection systems (audio and visual). I have the ability to plan and lay out work and complete repairs and installations with little or no technical advice. I have the ability read and follow color codes, schematics, blueprints and wiring diagrams to install and operate electrical equipment such as light switches, circuit breakers, fuses, control circuitry, relays, outlets, and fixtures into an existing system. I have the ability to create one line drawings and develop schematics of existing systems. I have the ability to draw and design complex motor controls, lighting controls and communication networks and install them while adhering to National and Local codes. I have the knowledge required to create preventative maintenance schedules and job plans for new and existing electrical systems and components. I currently possess and maintain a Journeyman Electrician License. I have the ability to provide training to other lower graded electricians and provide oversight for more complex assignments. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 B. I have the ability to perform the full range of tasks of an Electrician such as install, alter, repair, troubleshoot, and test parts of electrical systems such as motors, generators, controllers, interior communication equipment, switchboards, transformers, panels, appliances, intercoms, telephone systems and equipment, and various warning, indicating, monitoring and detection systems (audio and visual). I have the ability to plan and lay out work and complete repairs and installations with little or no technical advice. I have the ability read and follow color codes, schematics, blueprints, and wiring diagrams to install and operate electrical equipment such as light switches, circuit breakers, fuses, control circuitry, relays, outlets, and fixtures into an existing system. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 C. I have the ability to perform common tasks of an Electrician such as read wiring diagrams that specify where wiring, cables, and fixtures and controls are installed. I am able to maintain and repair electrical wiring, controls, equipment and fixtures; make repairs such as tightening connections, insulating bare wire, and soldering loose leads to contact points. I am able to use a variety of test equipment such as test light, megger, voltmeter, power meter set, and other electrical meters to locate malfunctions. I have selected and used hand and power tools such as screw drivers, crimpers, wire strippers, pliers, wire cutters and soldering irons. I am able to troubleshoot problems by observation and with simple instruments, such as meggers or voltmeters where the faulty unit is an individual circuit (less than a complete system) and is easily located. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 D. I have the ability to perform simple tasks of an Electrician under close supervision supporting higher level workers performing simple and routine duties such as repairing installed electrical systems.
 E. I do not possess the abilities described above.
2. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected