Position Title
Public Safety Dispatcher
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
MW-1544-JEFF-12761514-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 28, 2025 to Monday, August 11, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a United States Citizen?

For more information, review Employment of U.S Citizens.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.  
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
6
7
2. When you applied to this job, did you have any engagement with a National Park Service (NPS) Recruiter?
 A. No. I did not have any engagement with an NPS recruiter.
 B. Yes. I attended an NPS Federal Resume Webinar.
 C. Yes. At a virtual or in-person recruitment or job fair.
 D. Yes. I received an email from an NPS Recruiter.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
3. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
6. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
7. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the permanent full-time Dispatcher (Public Safety), GS-2151-06/07 position with Gateway Arch National Park. For each of the following tasks, select the response that most closely and accurately describes the experience you possess for the Dispatcher (Public Safety) position. Read each response carefully and select the statement from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training. You should be aware that your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume, narratives, and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting your or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance.
Your resume must include month/year to month/year and hours per week worked to receive credit for your work and/or volunteer experience. One year of specialized experience is equivalent to 12 months at 40 hours per week. Part-time hours are prorated. You will not receive any credit for experience that does not indicate exact hours per week or is listed as "varies" and you could be found not qualified.
1. From the descriptions below, select the response that best describes how your background meets the minimum experience or education qualification requirements for a Dispatcher (Public Safety) GS-2151-06. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration. This experience must be demonstrated in your resume.  To receive full credit, you must include complete dates (e.g., from and to; Month, Day, Year).


 A. I have at least one year of full-time specialized experience or the equivalent, comparable to GS-05 in the Federal Service that required the following types of duties-experience in dispatching or similarly related work. Specialized experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to successfully perform the duties of this position. Examples such as: (1) providing public safety dispatching (e.g., law enforcement, emergency medical, search and rescue, and fire) operations in the communications center entering concise, factual call logs and CAD entries; composes routine incident summaries; (2) applying clear step-by-step procedures operating with law enforcement computerized databases such as national law enforcement telecommunications system (NLETS), criminal justice information system (CJIS), national crime information center (NCIC) and; (3) Applying local Standard Operating Procedures and state/federal statutes related to public safety dispatch.
 B. I do not have the experience described above.
2. To qualify for the GS-2151-06 Dispatcher position.

Please indicate below how you obtained this experience or indicate where in your resume this information can be found.
3. From the descriptions below, select the response that best describes how your background meets the minimum experience or education qualification requirements for a Dispatcher (Public Safety) GS-2151-07. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration. This experience must be demonstrated in your resume.  To receive full credit, you must include complete dates (e.g., from and to; Month, Day, Year).
 A. I have at least one year of full-time specialized experience or the equivalent, comparable to GS-06 in the Federal Service that required the following types of duties-experience in dispatching or similarly related work. Specialized experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to successfully perform the duties of this position. Examples such as: (1) providing public safety dispatching (e.g., law enforcement, emergency medical, search and rescue, and fire) operations in the communications center and drafts comprehensive incident reports, inter agency notifications, and procedural memoranda; ensures written products are free of ambiguity and suitable for legal or administrative review. (2) Independently prioritizing and/or responding to calls assessing ambiguous situations (e.g., multi-agency incidents), selecting and coordinating the appropriate response strategy, and documenting rationale in after action reports.; (4) ) providing training on law enforcement and/or public safety dispatching systems-(5) Coordinating responses to incidents; initiating appropriate response of personnel and apparatus in accordance with agency plans, guides, and protocols; providing communications and logistical support to responders; maintains status on resources and incidents.
 B. I do not have the experience described above.
4. To qualify for the GS-2151-07 Dispatcher position.

Please indicate below how you obtained this experience or indicate where in your resume this information can be found.
5. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand than any information I give may be investigated. I understand that I will not be considered for employment if I do not respond "Yes" to this certification item.

 A. Yes, I certify/understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected