Position Title
Emergency Management Specialist (Recovery)
Agency
Federal Emergency Management Agency
Announcement Number
FEMA-SC-12777979-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 7, 2025 to Tuesday, August 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. The following three questions will be used to determine your eligibility for consideration under this job opportunity announcement. Please select YES to all eligibility question(s) which apply.

If you're uncertain you meet an eligibility, we suggest answering yes. Your application will only be considered under the applicable eligibilities you have selected. If you respond NO to all eligibility questions below, your application will not be considered under this announcement.

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration for EACH selected eligibility. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will not be considered.
1. Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)

Are you a current or former FEMA Stafford Act employee eligible under the Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)?

Current and former FEMA Stafford Act employees who can document 64 or more hours of paid time, per pay period, with no breaks in service* for 78 or more consecutive pay periods since August 1, 2014, are eligible to be considered for this Merit Promotion Job Opportunity Announcement. (*Note: A "break in service" is defined as 3 or more days in non-pay status, except as allowed under 5 CFR § 315.201(b)(3)(ii) for special circumstances such as military deployment, etc.).

To verify eligibility, you must submit: 
"Notice of DRRA Eligibility" provided by OCHCO.  If you believe you're eligible, but have not received your notice, please reach out to the HR Specialist listed in the announcement.
Your FEMA SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your appointment in the excepted service under the Stafford Act.  We recommend attaching a SF-50 which indicates your highest grade and step.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Current FEMA Employee

Are you a current FEMA employee who currently holds OR has previously held a permanent (not time limited) position in the competitive service?

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your permanent competitive status.  Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions.  You may need to submit more than one SF-50.  Your SF-50 must reflect:
Block 24 - Tenure:  1 - Permanent (career) or 2 - Conditional: AND
Block 34 - Position Occupied:  1 - Competitive Service
If you previously held a career or career conditional appointment, you must provide your current SF-50 and your SF-50 which shows competitive status eligibility.
Please do not submit an award SF-50, as it might not indicate your grade level and step.  
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. FEMA Employees Only Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)
Are you a current or former FEMA employee who is considered displaced or surplus (you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction in Force)?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, your most recent performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
9
11
12
2. How did you hear about this Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) job opportunity?
 A. USAJOBS
 B. FEMA's Social Media (Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Online Job board (Indeed, Zip Recruiter, etc.)
 D. FEMA.gov Careers Website
 E. FEMA Virtual Hiring Event
 F. FEMA On-Site Hiring Event
 G. College/University/Alumni Organization
 H. FEMA Employee Referral
 I. Other
3. Are you a retiree receiving a federal annuity (either military or civilian)? Or have you accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years? (Select all that apply.)
 A. Yes, I'm receiving a military annuity.
 B. Yes, I'm receiving a civilian annuity.
 C. Yes, I've received a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
 D. No, I am not receiving a federal annuity and have not accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
4. Are you a current FEMA employee?
 A. I'm a current FEMA Local Hire Employee
 B. I'm a current FEMA Reservist Employee
 C. I'm a current FEMA CORE Employee
 D. I'm a current FEMA PFT Employee
 E. I'm a current FEMA Senior Executive Service Employee
 F. I'm not a current FEMA Employee
5. Are you currently serving, or have served within the last five years, as a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) employee in the Executive Branch?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Please provide the following information regarding your political appointment(s): 1. Official Title of Position; 2. Type of Appointment (i.e. Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career SES); 3. Name of Agency; 4. Date Position began; and 5. Date Position ended. (NOTE: If you have never held a political appointment, please enter N/A.)
7. Within the past five years, have you received a buyout or payment through the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment Authority (VSIP) when separating from a federal position?
 A. No
 B. Yes, and I understand candidates who are reemployed with the federal government within five years after receiving a buyout or payment under VSIP are required to repay the entire amount of the incentive prior to their onboarding date.
8. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?

Select "Not Applicable" if this question does not apply to you.
 A. Yes
 B. No, but I have an exemption
 C. I am a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, and have NOT registered with the Selective Service System and do NOT have an exemption.
 D. Not Applicable
2. All FEMA employees are subject to 24-hour on-call in the event of an emergency and all Federal employees may be subject to emergency deployment. In the event of an emergency deployment, travel requirements may be extensive in nature (weeks to months), with little advance notice, and may require relocation to emergency sites, some of which are quite austere. The length of deployment may last anywhere from days to months, depending upon the nature of the emergency or disaster.

Every FEMA employee is considered an emergency manager and each employee has regular and recurring emergency management responsibilities, although not every position requires routine deployment to disaster sites. Your emergency management duties may vary depending on the needs of the Agency, your particular skills, and certain personal circumstances. All positions may require irregular work hours, work at locations other than the official duty station, and may include duties other than those specified in the employee's official position description.

Are you able to meet this commitment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

In order to be hired for this position, applicants must undergo and successfully pass a background investigation. This may include a review of financial issues, such as delinquency, child support and/or tax obligations, as well as certain criminal offenses and illegal use of or possession of drugs.

Are you willing to undergo a background investigation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Your responses to the questions below will be used in the evaluation of your qualifications for this position. Your resume and application materials must support the level of experience and/or education you claim in this questionnaire.  If after a complete review of your application package, a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications, you may be rated ineligible for this position.

1. Grade 9: Select the response that best describes your education and/or experience.
 A. I possess at least one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-7, as described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I have a Master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.
 C. I possess a combination of specialized experience, as described in the vacancy announcement, and related graduate level education, beyond the first full year of graduate level study, that when combined, meet the qualification requirements for this position. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating
 D. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.
2. Grade 11: Select the response that best describes your education and/or experience.
 A. I possess at least one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-9, as described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.
 C. I possess a combination of specialized experience, as described in the vacancy announcement, and related graduate level education, beyond the first two years of graduate level study, that when combined, meet the qualification requirements for this position. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.
 D. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.
3. Grade 12: Do you have one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the GS-11 level, as described in the vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Please indicate where and when you obtained each of the specialized experience requirements listed in the Qualifications section of this Job Opportunity Announcement. Include in your response: (1) the area of specialized experience; (2) the place of employment; and, (3) the specific dates of employment the experience was gained in MM/DD/YYYY - MM/DD/YYYY format. Your response must be supported by your resume.

Example: Experience in developing and delivering presentations and training; ABC Company; 10/01/2016 - 05/15/2018. (limit 500 characters)
5. Which of the following types of experience do you have in regards to managing daily assignments by planning and organizing tasks to carry out work functions? (Select all that apply)
 A. Keep a calendar of appointments for my supervisor.
 B. Routinely remind my supervisor of upcoming appointments or due dates.
 C. Plan my own work daily using lists to keep tasks organized.
 D. Maintain a calendar to keep track of upcoming events, due dates or schedules.
 E. Plan work that must be done for the week including the use of automated ticklers or reminders to keep track of priorities.
 F. Coordinate work functions or tasks with others in the office to ensure they are completed on time.
 G. Work in a fast paced environment where staff is required to balance multiple projects at once.
 H. Complete individual tasks that are given to me by my supervisor by the due date.
 I. None of the above.
6. Do you have experience working with Emergency Support Function (ESF) #6 (Mass Care, Emergency Assistance, Housing, and Human Services) within the National Response Framework?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Select all responses that describe your skill in developing networks and building alliances, engaging in cross-functional activities; collaborating across boundaries and finding common ground with a widening range of stakeholders
 A. Interacts and/or coordinates with non-governmental partners on individual and community preparedness.
 B. Collaborates with high-ranking officials such as other agency heads, top congressional staff officials, and state executives engaged in emergency preparedness activities
 C. Acts as liaison with interagency and State and local jurisdictions.
 D. None of the above
8. From the list below, please select all emergency management experience you have in long term recovery.
 A. Coordinating with internal and external stakeholders to provide situational awareness, identify shortfalls, resources and trends, and find solutions to needs identified.
 B. Providing information regarding Individual Assistance to voluntary, faith based, civic and non-profit organizations, as well as local government to avoid duplication of benefits.
 C. Coordinating with internal and external partners to support appropriate volunteer and donations messaging and management practices.
 D. Engaging community-based groups in the development of long-term recovery to address the unmet disaster caused needs of survivors who do not qualify for FEMA grants, Small Business Administration disaster loans, or other government assistance.
 E. Coordinating with the Office of Disability Integration and Coordination, Individual Assistance Programs, and voluntary agencies to assist survivors who may be at risk immediately following an event.
 F. Empowering communities by providing education, subject matter expertise, and technical assistance.
 G. None of the above.
9. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience implementing individual assistance or human services activities within an emergency management context.
 A. I have executed individual assistance programs.
 B. I have coordinated with Federal, state, local, tribal, and/or territorial partners to implement emergency management assistance programs.
 C. I have been deployed to a disaster to execute Emergency Support Function #6 activities.
 D. I have managed the complete execution of an individual assistance or human services program after an emergency management event.
 E. I have analyzed developing emergency management situations to determine the potential for an emergency management declaration at the Federal, state, local, tribal, and/or territorial level.
 F. I have led activation of emergency disaster human services operations at the Federal, state, tribal, or local government level, or as the primary representative of a non-governmental or faith-based organization.
 G. I have led Mass Care activities in response to an emergency management event.
 H. I have performed disaster damage assessments.
 I. I have provided input to State Plans.
 J. I have provided input to Grant proposals.
 K. None of the above.
10. Select all statements that describe your written communication.
 A. Edited internal memos for format, grammatical, spelling, and typographical errors.
 B. Wrote meeting summaries.
 C. Compiled data into reports, forms, or schedules.
 D. Produced responses to inquiries.
 E. Resolved edits accordingly to policy.
 F. Copied information from one document to another.
 G. Prepared form letters for correspondence.
 H. None of the above.
11. I have routinely and successfully applied the following interpersonal communication skills at work. (Select all that apply).
 A. Facilitated the resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties when cooperation was needed in order to complete my assigned work.
 B. Interacted effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arose that caused shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments.
 C. Provided direction, guidance, or instruction to lower grade professional staff.
 D. Diffused confrontational contact with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed.
 E. None of the above.
12. From the list below, select the response(s) that best describe(s) the types of products you have written professionally.
 A. I have written policy guideline documents.
 B. I have written briefings and presentations.
 C. I have written plans/operating procedures.
 D. I have developed/written standard reports.
 E. I have developed written data analysis (charts, spreadsheets, etc.).
 F. None of the above.
13. Select the statements below that describe your experience communicating.
 A. I have experience communicating orally in an interpersonal setting.
 B. I have experience speaking publicly during team meetings.
 C. I have experience making presentations to small groups.
 D. I have experience briefing managers.
 E. I have experience making presentations to large audiences.
 F. I have experience interacting with executive level staff.
 G. I have experience speaking publicly for the purpose of communicating unfamiliar technical or abstract information.
 H. I have experience speaking publicly in stressful and/or adversarial situations.
 I. I have experience developing reports. And/or other forms of written communication which convey complex and unfamiliar technical information in a form readily understandable by a general audience.
 J. I have formal training and/or work experience in risk or crisis communications.
 K. I have experience in oral communication concerning programs or projects that seek to promote behavioral change on the part of a general audience or the public.
 L. I have experience in written communication concerning programs or projects that seek to promote behavioral change on the part of a general audience or the public.
 M. None of the above.
14. From the list below, select the type(s) of customer with whom you have experience maintaining customer relationships.
 A. I have maintained customer relationships with representatives from other Federal Agencies.
 B. I have maintained customer relationships with the general public.
 C. I have maintained customer relationships with senior executives.
 D. I have maintained customer relationships with mid-level managers
 E. I have maintained customer relationships with internal customers.
 F. I have maintained customer relationships with faith-based groups.
 G. I have maintained customer relationships with officials from volunteer organizations.
 H. I have maintained customer relationships with elected officials.
 I. None of the above.
15. Select the statements that describe your experience providing customer service in person, over the phone, or through electronic mail. Choose all that apply.
 A. Researched and responded to requests for assistance.
 B. Utilized a tracking system to process and follow up on requests for assistance.
 C. Kept customers informed of the status of their requests for assistance.
 D. Contacted customers to obtain information to complete assignments.
 E. Contacted customers to provide information on agency or organizational programs.
 F. None of the above.
16. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience providing customer service during the execution of emergency management assistance programs.
 A. I have coordinated with leadership to identify information requirements.
 B. I have collaborated with whole community partners to provide disaster recovery programs.
 C. I have responded to program inquiries from whole community partners and/or elected officials.
 D. I have interacted with external stakeholders to provide new or updated disaster-specific program guidance.
 E. I have provided input to memoranda of understanding/agreements with other Federal agencies and private/non-profit groups.
 F. I have led emergency response and recovery activities focused on Mass Care and Individual Assistance Programs to ensure the timely provision of life-sustaining services and resources to evacuees and disaster survivors.
 G. I have briefed internal or external customers on recommended actions to resolve complex State, tribal, or community recovery challenges.
 H. None of the above.
17. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience developing alternative courses of action to address customer issues.
 A. I have identified alternative courses of action for a complex or time sensitive issue.
 B. I have identified associated costs and benefits for a complex or time sensitive issue.
 C. I have developed alternative courses of action for consideration by customer management.
 D. I have implemented alternative courses of action on behalf of a customer.
 E. None of the above.
18. Select all responses that describe your experience in representing your agency or organization:
 A. Represented your organization to external audiences.
 B. Represented the position of a senior management official (such as a Regional Administrator) at meetings.
 C. Conveyed or presented sensitive or controversial positions to senior officials within external organizations.
 D. Liaised with government representatives of various levels of authority from outside your organization to exchange information.
 E. None of the above.
19. I have partnered with the following external individuals or entities to complete work (check all that apply)
 A. Government officials
 B. Property management
 C. Members of the media
 D. Tribal representatives
 E. Federal agencies
 F. Nonprofit organizations
 G. None of the above
20. Select all responses from the list below that reflect the interpersonal skills you have used to foster cooperation, convey information, or resolve conflicts. (Select all that apply)
 A. Explained findings or recommendations to upper-level managers.
 B. Planned meetings with external individuals, industry groups, and/or organizations.
 C. Informed colleagues or senior management of events that may impact ongoing work.
 D. Collaborated with internal or external representatives to achieve mutual goals.
 E. None of the above.
21. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience working with others to achieve team goals.
 A. I have coordinated assignments for project team members based on factors such as project interests, strengths, and competing workloads.
 B. I have coordinated with other team members in preparing communication materials for assigned projects.
 C. I have promoted cooperation among project team members with varying perspectives and competing priorities.
 D. I have volunteered for assignments during team meetings.
 E. None of the above.
22. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience providing assistance to co-workers.
 A. I have assisted in the development of training materials or job aids.
 B. I have conducted on-the-job training.
 C. I have served as a mentor or coach.
 D. I have volunteered to assist co-workers in the completion of their task(s).
 E. I have been assigned to assist co-workers in the completion of their task(s).
 F. None of the above.
23. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience supporting the achievement of team goals.
 A. I have volunteered to provide assistance beyond my job duties when help was requested.
 B. I have sought opportunities where I could contribute to achieving team goals.
 C. I have collaborated with team members to complete assignments.
 D. I have provided guidance to others to carry out assignments.
 E. I have provided team updates to customers, management, or executives.
 F. I have worked to minimize or address obstacles to accomplishing team goals.
 G. None of the above.
24. Please take this opportunity to review your question responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you understand this statement, have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected