Position Title
Criminal Investigator (Special Agent)
Agency
Office of Inspector General
Announcement Number
25-HUDIG-12798809 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 16, 2025 to Monday, September 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency covered by an OPM Interchange agreement that conveys noncompetitive eligibility?

For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=InterchangeAgreementsWithOtherMeritSystems

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following merit promotion categories?
Current Federal civilian employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current Excepted service employee covered by an Interchange Agreement
Former Federal employee with Reinstatement eligibility
Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA)
Current Federal employee serving on a VRA appointment
Land Management Employee eligible under Public Law 114-47
Other competitive category not listed above (you must submit proof of eligibility)
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you eligible to be appointed under the Military Spouse Noncompetitive Appointing Authority based on any of the following categories?
You are the spouse of an active duty member of the Armed Forces.
You are the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs.
You are the widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status, and you have not re-married.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources. (https://www.usajobs.gov/Veterans)

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a former federal employee that has been separated for at least one full year and is eligible to be non-competitively reinstated to a higher grade or full-performance level than which you left federal employment?
(Note: you MUST provide:  1) a copy of your separation SF-50 (the "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2"); AND 2) the last performance appraisal you received from your federal employment which shows at least a fully successful rating.)

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Do you currently hold (or have you previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you eligible under any other miscellaneous appointing authority not listed thus far, such as (but not all inclusive to):
Postal Career Service Employee;
Postal Rate Commission Employee;
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; 
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee; or 
Foreign overseas employee or eligible family member of former overseas employee
 For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=MiscellaneousAuthoritiesNotRegulated .  To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

For more information on Foreign overseas employment please review the following: https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#NontemporaryForeignService or https://www.state.gov/global-community-liaison-office/family-member-employment/family-member-employment-in-the-d-c-area/non-competitive-eligibility-nce/#NCE5
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you eligible for consideration as a Peace Corps, VISTA, or Action volunteer?  If you select this option, you are required to provide acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility by submitting proof of employment from the appropriate agency with your completed application.
National Service (Peace Corps and VISTA)

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

 A. Yes
 B. No
12.

Incumbents selected for Criminal Investigator positions are covered under special law enforcement provisions. This requires that applicants not exceed the maximum age for entry. The date immediately preceding an applicants 37th birthday is the final date for selection. The age restriction does not apply if you served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement officer (FLEO) position covered by special civil service retirement provisions, including early or mandatory retirement.

If you are not subject to the age restriction because you have previously served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement officer (FLEO) position as described above, you must submit an SF 50 (or equivalent documentation) showing service in a covered civilian law enforcement. OR If you are not subject to the age restriction because you are a preference eligible veteran, you must submit appropriate veterans documentation to establish that you are eligible for veteran's preference in order to waive the age requirements for this position.

Will you have reached your 37th birthday by the closing date of this announcement?

 A. I will NOT have reached my 37th birthday by the close of this announcement.
 B. I am not subject to the age restriction because I served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement officer (FLEO) position as described above.
 C. I am a preference eligible veteran and am not subject to the requirements above.
 D. I will be 37 or older by the close date of this announcement. I am not a preference eligible veteran and have not previously served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement (FLEO) position.
13.

Medical Requirements: The selectee must pass a pre-appointment physical examination and meet the physical requirements for this position as required by this agency. The duties of this position require moderate to arduous physical exertion involving walking and standing, use of firearms, and exposure to inclement weather. Manual dexterity with comparatively free motion of finger, wrist, elbow, shoulder, hip, and knee joints is required. Arms, hands, legs, and feet must be sufficiently intact and functioning in order that applicants may perform the duties satisfactorily. Sufficiently good vision and hearing are required to perform the duties satisfactorily. Because the duties of this position are exacting, responsible, and sometimes performed under trying conditions, the selectee must possess emotional and mental stability. Any physical condition that would cause the selectee to be a hazard to himself/herself, or others is disqualifying.

Do you meet the physical requirements as described above?

 A. Yes, I possess the requirements listed above.
 B. I do not possess the requirements listed above.
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Los Angeles, CA
 B. Oakland, CA
 C. Sacramento, CA
 D. Miami, FL
 E. Tampa, FL
 F. Fort Worth, TX
 G. Houston, TX
2. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
4. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
Performance Appraisal
1.

As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal that includes the final rating, dated within the last year. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these specific requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so. If you fail to provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration. Type "yes" in the text box below if you are providing a performance appraisal meeting the above requirements with your application. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application meeting the requirement, please provide a reason in the text box below. ("N/A" is not considered an acceptable response).

Assessment 1
Specialized experience: For the GS-13, You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as:

-  Participating in the coordination of multi-agent cases or investigations that involve multiple subjects; AND
-  Performing criminal or administrative misconduct investigations involving law enforcement officers, or employees of all levels, including senior managers; AND
-  Providing technical assistance, training, and consultation for criminal investigations, inspections and techniques, or coordinating criminal investigations and strategies; AND
-  Utilizing various investigative techniques to establish interrelationships of facts or evidence; AND
-  Investigating sensitive, controversial subjects or cases involving jurisdictional problems.
1. Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 A. I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-12 level as described above.
 B. I do not have one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.
2. Please give the dates/resume reference when you gained this experience, so it may be found to ensure you receive proper credit. (limit 250 characters)
3. Select the law enforcement activities below with which you have experience.
 A. Making arrests.
 B. Conducting physical surveillance.
 C. Conducting consensual monitoring or other electronic surveillance.
 D. Drafting affidavits in support of arrest or search warrants, or criminal complaints.
 E. Participating in the execution of search warrants.
 F. Participating in protection details.
 G. Participating in undercover operations.
 H. Drafting and serving Inspector General subpoenas.
 I. Seizing and storing evidence.
 J. Presenting investigative results to AUSAs for prosecutory determination.
 K. Conducting employee misconduct investigations.
 L. Conducting non-employee criminal investigations.
 M. Conducting bribery investigations.
 N. Testifying in court and/or administrative hearings.
 O. None of the above.
4. Select the choice that best describes your experience in handling demanding and stressful situations in an office environment.
 A. I have no experience handling stressful and demanding situations.
 B. I have had training on handling stressful and demanding situations.
 C. I have dealt with occasional periods of mild stress as part of my regular job duties.
 D. As part of my regular job duties, I have dealt on a daily basis with moderate stress (e.g. handling heavy workloads).
 E. As part of my regular job duties, I have frequently dealt with highly stressful situations as the standard work environment (e.g. heavy workloads, tight deadlines, rapidly changing priorities, crisis situations).
5. Select all of the following types of affidavits that you have written and submitted, sworn, and had approved, that resulted in arrests, seizures, indictments, or penalties.
 A. Search warrant affidavits.
 B. Seizure warrant affidavits.
 C. Criminal complaint affidavits.
 D. Arrest warrant affidavits.
 E. None of the above.
6. Select the response that best describes your experience with law enforcement/criminal justice theories, techniques, procedures and practices.
 A. I have conducted and coordinated investigations involving multi-jurisdictional and multi-defendant cases, or participated in major investigations involving criminal, civil, and investigative procedures.
 B. I have applied law enforcement techniques and procedures by serving as an investigator in undercover operations, and/or conducting and assisting in, surveillances, obtaining search warrants, and conducting searches.
 C. I have obtained search and seizure records at the Federal, State or Local levels, provided testimony as a witness before grand juries, and made arrests of violators.
 D. I do not possess the above-described experience.
7. Choose all of the following that apply to your experience of systems and practices.
 A. Case Management System.
 B. Information Data Management System database.
 C. Budget/procurement.
 D. Equipment inventory.
 E. Semi-annual and Fiscal Year statistics.
 F. Evidence/Property Inventory.
 G. None of the above.
8. Select all the responses that best describes your experience with fraud abuse, white collar, and employee misconduct investigations.
 A. I have no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have experience managing, coordinating and/or evaluating fraud abuse, white collar, crime.
 C. I have experience managing coordinating and/or evaluating employee misconduct investigations.
 D. I have participated in joint investigative activities with other Federal, State and local agencies.
 E. I have experience managing, coordinating and/or evaluating investigations involving organizations with a high degree of visibility, Congressional, and Executive interest.
 F. I have conducted and coordinated investigations involving joint investigative activities with other Federal, State, and local agencies involving programs with a high degree of visibility, Congressional, and Executive interest.
9. Select all of the statements that best describes your experience working with other law enforcement agencies.
 A. I have no experience performing this task.
 B. Conducting joint investigations with other federal law enforcement agencies.
 C. Conducting joint investigations with state or local law enforcement agencies.
 D. Serving as a member of a federal task force.
 E. Serving as a formal agency liaison to another agency or organization.
 F. Coordinating investigative efforts with personnel from differing areas of responsibility and jurisdiction.
10. Choose the statement(s) that best describes your experience and skills as a Criminal Investigator.
 A. I have experience developing and maintaining investigative policies and procedures.
 B. I have experience providing advice and assistance to staff in utilizing appropriate investigative techniques and applying recognized investigative standards.
 C. I have experience in planning and coordinating the work of an organization or major organizational segment, providing advice, leadership and training in carrying out investigative and support activities.
 D. None of the above.
11. Select the statement that demonstrates your experience utilizing an automated information management system to manage an investigative workload and accurately report investigative information.
 A. I have experience managing an automated information management system to verify the accuracy of investigative statistical accomplishments reported for an office.
 B. I have experience with investigative reporting requirements and statistical tools used to maintain investigative information in an automated format.
 C. None of the above.
12. Select all of the statements that best describe your experience leading multi-agency investigative team.
 A. I have no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have conducted or directed an investigation that involved other Federal/State investigative agencies.
 C. I have developed and/or modified methods to ensure thorough and accurate investigations.
 D. I have provided input to U.S. Attorneys on investigation background, evidence, and findings.
 E. I have developed reports of findings that include recommendations for improvements to program operations.
13. Select the choice that best describes your experience in reporting to higher-level officials on program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.
 A. I have no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have reported primarily to my immediate supervisor, either formally or informally, on program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.
 C. I have given informal briefings to higher-level officials in the organization regarding program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.
 D. I have given formal written reports and oral briefings to higher-level officials both within and outside my organization regarding program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.
14. Select all of the verbal communication activities that you have routinely performed in your employment.
 A. Conducting law enforcement interviews.
 B. Presenting investigative findings to Assistant U.S. Attorneys.
 C. Presenting investigative status and other investigative matters to senior agency officials.
 D. Providing oral training presentations.
 E. Orally providing information to the news media.
 F. Providing operational briefings to other members of a task force or raid team.
 G. Providing advice, guidance or direction to investigators of lower grades on regulations or procedures.
 H. Successfully negotiating for the acceptance of new policies and/or procedures.
 I. Serving as mediator in discussions between varying groups or individuals with opposing opinions and/or goals.
 J. Negotiating budget proposals.
 K. Testify in court and/or administrative hearings.
 L. None of the above.
15. Select all of the written products below that you have experience writing.
 A. Memoranda of Investigative Activities.
 B. Reports of Investigation.
 C. Investigative work plans.
 D. Administrative reports to management.
 E. Proposals for undercover, surveillance, arrest or search warrant operations.
 F. Responses to Congressional or other interagency inquiries.
 G. Briefing papers for senior officials.
 H. Speeches or Congressional testimony.
 I. Budget proposals or justifications.
 J. Press releases or public bulletins.
 K. Employee position descriptions.
 L. Policy and procedures.
 M. Applications for approval for consensual monitoring.
 N. Applications for Inspector General subpoenas.
 O. Project/Program planning proposals.
 P. Training presentations and other training material.
 Q. Strategic Plans and/or other strategic measurements.
 R. None of the above.
16. Indicate all of the following types of interpersonal communication duties you have performed as a regular part of your job.
 A. Briefed management/customers on policy changes.
 B. Defended recommendations on controversial issues.
 C. Facilitated coordination of efforts between organizational entities.
 D. Acted as technical representative.
 E. Served on panels, committees, or task forces on technical, programmatic, and/or professional issues.
 F. Regularly consulted by others on technical, programmatic, and/or professional issues.
 G. None of the above.
17. Select the response that reflects your experience dealing with others in difficult situations.
 A. I have dealt calmly and effectively with high stress volatile situations, or difficult, distressed people, while remaining professional and objective.
 B. I have been able to develop and maintain contact with individuals from varying nationalities and socioeconomic backgrounds, and engendered cooperation and acceptance from difficult subjects, continuing associations to derive useful information.
 C. I have worked well in group settings and am able to deal effectively with individuals from diverse backgrounds. I am able to maintain composure and control in difficult situations.
 D. I have no experience dealing with others in difficult situations.
18. Select the choice that best describes the extent to which you have gathered and analyzed facts, prepared databases, determined the accuracy of the data, defined problems based on the data, and identified solutions.
 A. I have gathered data/information in preparation for analysis by others.
 B. I have gathered data/information, analyzed it, and summarized the results of my findings.
 C. I have gathered data/information, performed analyses, summarized results, and identified problem areas.
 D. I have gathered statistical data and narrative information, performed analyses, summarized results, identified problem areas, and proposed/implemented solutions.
 E. None of the above.
19. Select the choice that best describes your experience in responding to Congressional, interagency, or intra-agency inquiries/complaints.
 A. I have no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have drafted portions of responses for higher-level review on Congressional, interagency, or intra-agency inquires based on my understanding of Federal laws, rules, regulations, policies, and procedures.
 C. I have written responses/testimony and represented the organization on Congressional, interagency, or intra-agency inquiries based on experience with Federal laws, rules, regulations, policies, and procedures.
20. Select the choice that best describes your experience establishing and maintaining effective working relationships outside of the organization.
 A. I have no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have provided routine information, resolved simple problems, questions, or complaints, and directed non-routine problems, questions, or complaints to the appropriate person/office.
 C. I have maintained relationships with members of other work units within my organization who have diverse needs, assessed their needs, and provided information to them. I have resolved non-routine problems, questions, or complaints.
 D. I have developed and maintained relationships with interest groups with diverse needs, anticipated and assessed their needs, and provided information to them. I have resolved non-routine problems, questions, or complaints.
21. Select the choice that best describes your experience as a team leader coordinating the work of other team members based on priorities, requirements of the task, and capabilities of the members.
 A. I have no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had some periodic experience in assigning work as a team leader or an acting supervisor.
 C. I have had on-going experience as the manager of a large program/project in assigning work to others and adjusting those assignments based on changing priorities and demonstrated skills of program/project members.
 D. I have experience as a supervisor in assigning program and project responsibilities to subordinate employees.
22. Choose the statement that best describes your experience in providing employee training.
 A. I have no experience in providing employee training.
 B. I have participated in providing informal on-the-job training to peers.
 C. I have given formal training presentations on one or more law enforcement operational topics.
 D. In addition to providing informal on-the-job training to peers and/or subordinates, I have been responsible for identifying training needs, recommending different types of training, and personally giving formal training presentations on a wide variety of law enforcement topics.
23. Select the item that best describes your experience in improving the efficiency and quality of the work performed in a work unit.
 A. I have recommended changes that have been adopted by multiple work units and have improved their efficiency and quality of their work.
 B. I have recommended specific changes that have improved my work units efficiency and the quality of its work.
 C. I have made specific changes that have improved my personal efficiency and the quality of my work.
 D. I have no experience in performing this task.
24. Select the choice that best describes your experience in developing plans for and administering a nation-wide program or an organization.
 A. I have no experience in performing this task.
 B. Under the close guidance of others, I have developed short-range plans for a program (e.g. set timelines, established milestones, identified needed resources).
 C. I have developed both short and long-range plans for a program or organization (e.g. set timelines, established milestones, identified needed resources).
 D. I have overseen the development of plans that were broad in scope involving multiple entities.
25. Choose the item that describes your experience providing guidance on policies, techniques, and procedures in a law enforcement environment.
 A. I have no experience providing guidance on policies, techniques, and procedures in a law enforcement environment.
 B. I have experience leading discussions regarding policy and investigative techniques in group settings.
 C. I have experience providing guidance on operational policies, techniques, and procedures to law enforcement officers.
 D. I have experience as a supervisor in providing guidance to law enforcement officers in a wide-range of operational law enforcement policies, techniques, and procedures.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected