Position Title
Supervisory Program Specialist
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12772684-VERCSVO-IMP-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 28, 2025 to Friday, August 1, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who is in a permanent position that is in the competitive service (see block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type) that meets ONE of the following?
Completed 52 weeks in a position a grade level below the grade level listed in this announcement.
Have held the same grade level or higher in a previous position as the grade level listed in this announcement but are now in a grade level below the grade level listed in this announcement.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
If you meet the first bullet above, your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, that shows your position occupied (block #34 of our SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level as stated in the job announcement. 
If you meet the second bullet above, your SF-50 that shows you have held the grade level or higher than the grade level listed in this announcement. 
Your latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing your rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. I acknowledge the following conditions if I choose to submit my resume through the USAJOBS Resume Builder:
I understand that resumes submitted through USAJOBS Resume Builder are converted to a PDF format when they are transmitted to USA Staffing from the USAJOBS applicant interface and additional spaces/page gaps are added to resumes during the Resume Builder conversion process;
Based on the above conditions, I understand that USCIS strongly encourages me to save my resume to a PDF document and upload the PDF document instead of submitting my resume created through Resume Builder;
I understand that USCIS' human resources will only review the first 5 pages of my resume to determine eligibility/qualifications for this position;
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I have met this requirement for consideration.

(Note: Additional guidance regarding this requirement is available within the How to Submit Your Resume section of the USCIS Resume Requirement FAQs.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 D. No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.
3.

This job is being posted for individuals who reside within the local commuting area* of the announced duty location on a permanent basis. All candidates must meet this requirement, with the exception of Refugee, Asylum and International Operations (RAIO) overseas employees approved for rotation OR unless on an approved exemption OR at an approved USCIS location. In these cases you can apply for any location.

Do you reside within the local commuting area* of the announced duty location on a permanent basis OR are a RAIO overseas employee approved for rotation OR on an approved exemption** OR at an approved USCIS location***?

*Local commuting area is defined as a distance that you can reasonably travel back and forth daily to the announced duty location from your permanent residence.

**An approved exemption is: military spouses, approved RA, or temporary long distance remote status (documentation required).

***An approved USCIS location is defined as pre authorized space designated for use by the program, office or directorate.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

The address listed on your USA Jobs profile or resume must show that you reside within the local commuting area of the announced duty location.
If on an approved exemption you must provide the most recent approval.
If at an approved USCIS location you must provide the original reporting instructions.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. If your status changes, requiring you to report to a physical location you may be directed to report to one of the duty locations listed in the original job opportunity announcement without relocation expenses.
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I understand this requirement.
By answering NO to this question, I am asking to be removed from further consideration for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current USCIS employee who opted to take part of the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) and are currently in an Administrative Leave category?
 A. Yes.
 B. No.
Assessment 1
1. GS-11 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience and/or education?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or at least three (3) full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M. in a field related to the work of this position as described in the vacancy announcement.
 C. I possess a combination of specialized experience and graduate education beyond the first two (2) years of graduate study that together meet the requirements for this position.
 D. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.
2. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
3. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-11. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-09 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-09 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-09 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-11 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., VRA, Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
The following section contains a multitude of question types. If you see a radio button, you can only select one response. If you see a checkbox, you may select all that apply.
4. Which actions have you completed to implement strategic initiatives (e.g. enterprise-wide hiring reform, improving operating processes, developmental programs)?
 A. Participated in the implementation of a strategic initiative with organization-wide implications.
 B. Led a working group focused on implementation of an organization-wide strategic initiative.
 C. Developed a course of action (e.g., road map, project plan) for a strategic initiative.
 D. Identified risks or barriers to successful achievement for a strategic initiative.
 E. Reported on the progress of a strategic achievement to leadership (e.g., formal briefings, progress reports).
 F. Revised a course of action to meet a strategic goal.
 G. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. Have you updated existing policies and procedures for a program or office based on new or changing legislation, regulations, and policies?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Which statement best describes your role in aligning work with organizational goals and objectives?
 A. I have worked within a team to achieve organizational goals and objectives.
 B. I have led a team to achieve organizational goals and objectives.
 C. I have supervised a team to achieve organizational goals and objectives.
 D. None of the above
7. What statements apply to your experience developing communication strategies designed to encourage employee innovation and participation in overcoming operational challenges and policy changes.
 A. I coached and mentored employees, both formally and informally, in order to improve performance, identify leadership development opportunities, and empower individual employees to become change agents within the agency and department.
 B. I led other supervisors in fostering open feedback and communication, continued development of leadership skills, and responsibility to develop their own subordinates.
 C. I have given advice, counsel or instruction to employees on both work and administrative matters.
 D. I have taken training on strategic communication designed to create corporate visioning and culture.
 E. I have written or co-authored communication strategies for senior leaders to execute.
 F. None of the above statements describe my experience.
8. Select your highest achievement in influencing and leading others to accomplish your agency's or organization's priorities.
 A. I have moved important initiatives forward because I understand the reality of working within organizational politics.
 B. I have gained employee commitment to an organizations’ priorities by clearly communicating my expectations and holding employees accountable to these expectations.
 C. I have guided a team or direct reports through a significant organizational change by garnering the team’s trust, by carefully listening to their concerns, then relaying their concerns to higher management, and ultimately, working with higher management to come to a mutually beneficial resolution.
 D. I have promoted interdependency by allowing my subordinates a certain amount of autonomy so that they may develop creative and innovative strategies or solutions within the team dynamic.
 E. I have been successful in leading a team to accomplish organizational priorities because I effectively communicate my vision to them and share my enthusiasm for it.
 F. None of these answers apply.
9. Which statement best describes your approach to fostering dynamic interactions with management?
 A. I have adopted behaviors which enhance interactive contributions, such as expanding personal networks within the workplace and bringing more information to the table at team meetings.
 B. I keep informed on issues important to my organization and frame these issues appropriate to the manager with whom I am interacting.
 C. When communicating upward to management, I focus on the impact not the process and on vision for the future instead of past missteps.
 D. I first attempt to understand the roles of each level of management, and then present information that is pertinent to that manager's job function.
 E. None of the above.
10. I have independently planned projects that resulted in organizational-wide improvements.
 A. True
 B. False
11. Successful performance management requires me to coach all subordinates, including those who are meeting their goals.
 A. True
 B. False
12. Which statement best describes your reaction when work processes frequently change?
 A. I quickly adapt when work processes frequently change and assist others.
 B. I don’t like it when work processes frequently change but I will adapt accordingly.
 C. I don't mind when my work processes frequently change and I remain positive.
 D. I struggle with regaining my momentum when work processes frequently change and have difficulty adapting to the change.
13. Select the ways in which you develop and maintain collaborative working relationships with others to resolve conflicts in a positive manner.
 A. Find commonality to all sides as a starting point for shared outcome.
 B. Actively listen and brainstorm together.
 C. Be respectful to differing opinions.
 D. Recognize the barriers to the common goal.
 E. Identify solutions all sides can agree to.
 F. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
14. Have you independently written reports that presented technical statistical issues/analyses for non-technical audiences?
 A. Yes
 B. No
15. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers?
 A. I have not had education and/or training in developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents.
 B. I have had education and/or training in developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers.
 C. I have developed and formatted written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers under close supervision to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have independently developed and formatted written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers.
 E. I have supervised others in, or been regularly consulted as an expert in, developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers.
16. Choose the option that best describes your experience producing succinct and clear written information for program members, senior officials, and organizational leadership.
 A. I have applied numerous techniques to provide succinct and clear information regarding issues related to national security.
 B. I have directed teams or groups to provide succinct and clear information to Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 C. I have performed nuanced research to develop way to proffer information to Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 D. I have spearheaded mission specific teams in identifying definitive information to be presented to Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 E. I do not meet any of the options provided.
17. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience responding to congressional, interagency, or intra-agency inquiries/complaints (e.g., request for guidance on policy application, explanation of adjudication result)?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education responding to these types of inquiries/complaints.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to responding to these types of inquiries/complaints, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I drafted portions of responses for higher level review.
 D. I independently wrote responses or testimony to respond to inquiries/complaints.
 E. I was responsible for representing the agency in the overall response to inquiries/complaints.
18. I represented my office by presenting on program/policy matters at cross-functional meetings.
 A. True
 B. False
19. I have paraphrased the thoughts and ideas of others as they are being communicated to develop a record (e.g., written record of oral communications, paraphrased into a voice recorder).
 A. True
 B. False
20. Choose the statement(s) below that reflect(s) your experience giving oral presentations in a professional setting.
 A. I have given oral presentations to external parties and high-level management.
 B. I have given oral presentations to supervisory staff.
 C. I have given oral presentations to peers and colleagues.
 D. I have given oral presentations to subordinate staff.
 E. I have never given oral presentations.
21. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience developing action plans to achieve goals?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to developing action plans to achieve goals.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to developing action plans to achieve goals, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I reviewed office goals for alignment with the organizational mission.
 D. I created action plans to implement and meet goals across program areas.
 E. I participated in developing action items to support establishing goals for a specific program area.
 F. I led others in the development of actions items to support specific goals in a program areas.
22. Which statement best describes your highest level of making sound, well-informed recommendations?
 A. I asked for guidance from others (peers, supervisors, trainers).
 B. I referenced established training documents and operating procedures to solve work problems.
 C. I collaborated with peers to make sound, well-informed decisions.
 D. I trained others on techniques to assist in making well-informed recommendations.
23. I have been responsible for storing sensitive documents (e.g., documents with Personally Identifying Information (PII)) in accordance with my organization's policies.
 A. True
 B. False
24. Select the statements you have performed relative to proactively facilitating case completion.
 A. I requested records and documents maintained by Federal, states, or local offices, or foreign countries.
 B. I analyzed files to ensure they contained all the required documentation for completion.
 C. I reviewed databases to ensure all files were logged and accounted for.
 D. I printed reports for files with missing items to make it easier to review and track completion.
 E. None of the above.
25. If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "pass," "satisfactory," or better?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. I am a Federal employee but have not received a performance rating.
 D. Not applicable. I am not a Federal employee.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
26. Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected