Position Title
MISSION SUPPORT SPECIALIST (GENERALIST)
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
USBP-IMP-12781203-CLK Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 18, 2025 to Friday, August 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Naco, AZ
 B. Tucson, AZ
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
7
9
3. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-7 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-7 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-7 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-9 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
4. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-5 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-5 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-5 grade level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-7 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale or I am applying
6. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
7. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
8. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
9. In addition to the application and application questionnaire, this position requires a USA Hire online assessment, which measures critical general competencies required to perform the job. If you are required to take the USA Hire assessment, you will be emailed a unique URL to access the USA Hire system. The USA Hire online assessment must be completed within 48 hours, following the close of this announcement. You will have the opportunity to request a testing accommodation for the assessment should you have a disability covered under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). See the How to Apply and Next Steps within the Job Opportunity Announcement for additional details.

Do you acknowledge that you may be required to take an additional online USA Hire assessment, via an email link sent to you after completion of this application, and that failure to complete any portion of the assessment will remove your application from consideration?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that by not taking the additional required USA Hire assessment that I will be removed from further consideration.
Assessment 1
The following question will only be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following best describes your experience and/or education to qualify for the GS-07 grade level?

 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes assisting in the inventory of local property, reviewing of property records, and preparing property reports; assisting with acquisition, receiving, transferring, excessing, reutilization, repairing, diagnosing, and retiring of various type of property; researching and preparing reports with data from internal sources for regular one-time information needs by senior managers; assisting in translating laws, regulations, and policies regarding retirement and benefits; reviewing travel vouchers to ensure they are correct and complete.
 B. I have successfully completed one year (or more) of full-time graduate education or a Master's (or higher) degree from an accredited college or university for such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 C. I have successfully completed all the requirements for a Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university and claim eligibility for superior academic achievement (SAA) based on one of the following: (1) class standing, (2) grade-point average, or (3) honor society membership. (See qualifications section in the job opportunity announcement for more information.) I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 D. I have a combination of successfully completed education and experience that is at least 100% as described in the Combining Experience and Education statement in the announcement posting. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 E. I do not possess the specialized experience and/or education as described above.
2. Which of the following best describes your experience and/or education to qualify for the GS-09 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes developing and maintaining various electronic files, creating staffing reports, Powerpoint presentations, and spreadsheets; analyzing and evaluating information to determine accuracy and make recommendations to improve operations; liaison to supervisors, managers, and executives in USBP and outside agencies and organizations; gathering data on personnel data, payroll, logistical information, or fleet vehicles and analyzing the data as needed while providing suggestions for resolution of problems.
 B. I have successfully completed two or more years of full-time graduate education or a Master's (or higher) degree from an accredited college or university or an LL.B. or J.D that demonstrates the skills necessary to do the work. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 C. I have a combination of successfully completed education and experience that is at least 100% as described in the Combining Experience and Education statement in the announcement posting. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 D. I do not possess the specialized experience and/or education as described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
3. Indicate the extent of your experience taking inventory of local property.

 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have completed training related to physical inventory and reporting but have not applied this in my work.
 C. I have assisted in performing physical inventory and reporting inventory status.
 D. I have independently performed physical inventory and reported the inventory status to include missing items, and items not listed on the inventory.
4. Indicate the extent of your experience performing mathematical computations and problem solving.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have limited experience performing mathematical computations such as addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division. I have experience solving practical problems as a member of a team.
 C. I have independently performed mathematical computations and solved practical problems. I have provided reports of my results to a supervisor or other senior individual.
 D. I have extensive experience with practical problem solving by making correct inferences about quantitative information by applying a variety of mathematical and statistical techniques. I have developed results reports and presented my findings to other team members or senior level leaders.
5. Indicate the extent of your experience completing assignments with minimal supervision.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have experience completing assignments with minimal supervision.
 C. I have routinely completed assignments independently.
6. Indicate the extent to which you have developed and maintained effective relationships with individuals internal and external to your work group, office, and organization.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have maintained relationships with individuals in my work group or office, primarily in the completion of my regular job duties or in my response to specific inquiries.
 C. I have maintained relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group and office to exchange information, resolve problems, or participate in teams.
 D. I have developed and maintained extensive relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group, office, and organization to resolve problems, plan team projects, and establish long-term working relationships.
7. Indicate the extent of your experience in planning and organizing work.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had experience planning and organizing my own work.
 C. I have had limited experience in planning and organizing work for a small team.
 D. I have planned and organized the day-to-day work of my immediate work unit on a continuous basis.
8. Indicate the extent of your experience in responding to new information, changing conditions, or unexpected obstacles.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have adapted to minor or temporary changes affecting my own assignments or work schedule by rescheduling work or refocusing my efforts.
 C. I have rearranged some priorities and rescheduled a significant amount of work to accommodate changes in resources or goals. I have recommended new methods in situations in which established procedures were unavailable or inapplicable.
 D. I have rearranged virtually all work priorities and schedules to accommodate sudden major changes, problems, or setbacks. I have chosen or developed new methods in situations in which established procedures were unavailable or inapplicable.
9. Select the choice that best describes your ability to train others.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have been responsible for providing informal on-the-job training to peers.
 C. I have identified training needs and provided recommendations on appropriate training content and methods for peers or subordinates.
 D. I have been responsible for developing and conducting formalized internal training programs.
10. Indicate the extent of your experience in working in work-related teams.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have participated as a team member, receiving task assignments and project goals from my supervisor or team leader.
 C. I have served as a team leader, communicating task assignments and project goals to team members and monitoring progress.
 D. I have led several teams, ensuring that team members met project goals and deadlines and evaluating individual team member performance.
11. Indicate the extent of your experience utilizing computers and computers applications.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have training or some experience using computers and computer applications.
 C. I have training and experience in personal computer (PC) applications and I have used it to analyze data and communicate information.
 D. I have extensive experience using software packages or databases to analyze data and communicate information to other team members or senior level leaders.
12. Indicate the extent of your experience in using Microsoft Office software.

 A. I have had no training in or experience with Microsoft Office software.
 B. I am familiar with the basic capabilities of Microsoft Office software, to include Word, Excel, Access, and PowerPoint. I have used at least one of these software products in the course of my daily job.
 C. I have experience using multiple software products from Microsoft Office (e.g., Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint). I have used at least two or more of these software products during the course of my daily job.
 D. I have extensive experience using multiple software products from Microsoft Office (e.g., Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint). Because of my expert knowledge, I frequently provide formal or informal training to my coworkers on the software product(s).
13. Indicate the extent of your experience seeking opportunities for development and for learning new techniques and skills.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training on the job regarding how to perform my assigned tasks and duties. I feel comfortable asking questions if I do not understand something.
 C. I have asked my supervisor for additional training opportunities to learn new skills to improve current performance or develop professionally.
 D. I have utilized new skills and techniques acquired through training and on the job learning to make recommendations for process improvement.
14. Indicate the extent to which you have gathered and analyzed facts, defined problems, and identified solutions.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have gathered data/information in preparation for analysis by others.
 C. I have gathered data/information, analyzed it, and summarized the results of my findings.
 D. I have gathered data/information, performed analyses, summarized results, and identified problem areas.
 E. I have gathered statistical data and narrative information, performed analyses, summarized results, identified problem areas, and proposed/implemented solutions.
15. Indicate the extent to which you have read, interpreted, and applied written information to perform work-related tasks.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have read routine materials/correspondence and applied this information to routine tasks (for example, to respond to basic questions from coworkers or support personnel).
 C. I have read materials, such as manuals, handbooks, directives, or nontechnical reports, and used them to complete projects and answer questions (e.g., read reports to provide summaries to others, informed others of ways to resolve potential issues).
 D. I have read difficult materials, such as technical manuals and reports, legal briefs, or new laws/regulations, and applied them to specific situations (e.g., to plan and implement special projects or studies, or identify situations that may impact current/future operations).
16. Indicate the extent of your ability to communicate with all levels of managers, staff members, and outside groups.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have communicated with other staff members and managers in the routine performance of my duties.
 C. I have conducted meetings with and provided training for staff members or outside groups.
 D. I have provided briefings within my own organization or to external groups or organizations.
17. Indicate the extent of your experience communicating in writing.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written portions of reports, information papers, and other documents dealing with general or technical subject matter.
 C. I have independently composed written reports, information papers, memoranda, policies/procedures, and other complete documents dealing with technical and specialized subject matter.
 D. I have independently composed written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, formal briefings, and other complete documents dealing with complex, technical, and specialized subject matter.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected