Position Title
Meteorologist
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
R2-25-12789615-WA-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 11, 2025 to Wednesday, September 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Career Transition Assistance Plan: 

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.


Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in the agency posting this job announcement with CTAP eligibility?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)

Are you a current or former federal employee considered displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.   

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency posting this job announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. U.S. Citizens

Are you a U.S. citizen or national?


 A. Yes
 B. No
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. YOUR RESPONSES WILL AFFECT YOUR CONSIDERATION FOR THIS POSITION. The following questions address if you are eligible to apply to this job opportunity announcement through Merit Promotion procedures. You will only be considered under the options you have selected. You may qualify for more than one eligibility, so please choose carefully. If you respond that you do not meet any of the following criteria, you will not be considered for this position under this announcement. Please refer to the announcement for additional information. You must submit a complete application by the close of the announcement to be considered.
5. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
6. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
7. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
8. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
9. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
Assessment 1
Basic Education Requirements for Meteorology.
Choose the response that best describes your experience and training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provided in your resume or application and information provided by your references.
1. Select the response below that most accurately describes how you meet the minimum qualification requirement for the position of Meteorology at the GS-13 grade level.
 A. I possess a degree in: Meteorology, Atmospheric Science, or other Natural Science Major that included: 1. At least 24 SH (36 QH) in meteorology/atmospheric science including a minimum of: a. 6 SH of atmospheric dynamics and thermodynamics;* b. 6 SH of analysis and prediction of weather systems; c. 3 SH of physical meteorology; and d. 2 SH of remote sensing of the atmosphere and/or instrumentation. 2. 6 SH of physics, with at least one course that includes laboratory sessions.* 3. 3 SH of ordinary differential equations.* 4. At least nine semester hours of course work appropriate for a physical science major in any combination of three or more of the following: physical hydrology, statistics, chemistry, physical oceanography, physical climatology, radiative transfer, aeronomy, advanced thermodynamics, advanced electricity and magnetism, light and optics, and computer science. *There is a prerequisite or corequisite of calculus for course work in atmospheric dynamics and thermodynamics, physics, and differential equations. Calculus courses must be appropriate for a physical science major.
 B. I possess a combination of education and experience: course work as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 C. I do not meet the criteria in "A" or "B" above.
Minimum Qualifications GS-13.
Choose the response that best describes your experience. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provided in your resume or application and information provided by your references.
2. Select the response below that most accurately describes how you meet the minimum qualification requirement for the position of Meteorology at the GS-13 grade level.

 A. I possess one year of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 in the Federal service. Specialized experience must include proficient in leading cross-functional teams in multi-agency environments in the development of fire weather products and smoke dispersion services; coordinating the implementation of monitoring systems to create actionable baseline data for optimizing fire and predictive service programs and making regulatory determinations and managing all aspects of weather data collection networks.
 B. I do not possess the above experience.
Skill in writing technical and management reports and directives sufficient to communicate program direction, evaluation criteria, and policies.
3. Please select all statements that reflect your experience in providing services related to Program Management of Fire Meteorology and Predictive Services.

 A. I extract, analyze and disseminate to a wide range of audiences, weather and fuels information in order to provide decision support to wildland fire personnel through fire potential forecasts and outlooks.
 B. I use National Fire Danger Rating System, Weather Information Management System, and various weather data sources for interpolation of current fire conditions.
 C. I deliver technically accurate responses to inquiries from regions and programs concerning fire weather predictive services including likelihood of severe weather that could adversely affect responder safety and operational effectiveness on wildfire incidents.
 D. I monitor weather station networks and analyze relevant data to determine Fire Danger Rating System ratings.
 E. I coordinate with the NWS, adjacent and national fire meteorologists, private weather vendors and State personnel to ensure forecasts and predictive services products are state-of-the-art and accurate.
 F. I provide assistance and advice to field units to provide guidance, keep informed of local conditions and ensure conformity with established fire weather policy and procedure.
 G. None of the above.
Skill in interpersonal relationships.
4. Please select the statement that best describes your experience with Predictive Services Program Management.

 A. I have led a team of experts in predictive services, helping the organization use data and analytics.
 B. I have been a member in a Predictive Service program.
 C. I have been in a supporting role in a Predictive Service program.
 D. I have limited experience with a Predictive Service program.
 E. I have no experience with Predictive Service programs.
Skill in conducting briefings and presentations with a wide range of audiences to include wildland fire directors, agency administrators, private interest groups, state air regulators and the media to convey scientific concepts and technical information.
5. Please select all statements that reflect your experience with Predictive Services Program Operations.

 A. I create fire weather briefings and long-term outlooks used by various audiences at a technological level easily understood.
 B. I produce Fire Weather forecasts that take into account pattern recognition, terrain, synoptic numerical weather models, and local knowledge in support of various fire operations.
 C. I develop new products to incorporate the latest weather and wildfire research applicable to help enhance decision making ability regarding wildfire and prescribed burn operations, including long term outlooks which may affect staffing levels with different agencies.
 D. I utilize briefing preparation software such as, but not limited to PowerPoint, Microsoft Teams Camtasia, Microsoft Excel, and other live video and presentation software.
 E. I am routinely contacted by unit or geographic managers to consult on predicted fire weather and conditions and resulting impacts on wildfire.
 F. None of the above.
Skill in application of mesoscale and complex terrain meteorology to provide on-site meteorological support.
6. Please select all statements that reflect your experience with Monitoring.
 A. I incorporate latest weather and wildfire research to help ensure the Predictive Service program and products are relevant, rigorous adaptive and impact driven.
 B. Coordinate with meteorologists, analysts, and field teams to ensure accurate situational awareness.
 C. Communicate emerging threats and recommendations to decision-makers.
 D. Guide the development and refinement of predictive tools and dashboards.
 E. Train and mentor monitoring staff in best practices and new technologies.
 F. None of the above.
Knowledge in operational Meteorology.
7. Please select all statements that reflect your experience with Technology Transfer and Applied Research.

 A. I combine meteorology, data science, ecology, and human factors to develop holistic predictive models.
 B. I measure how new tools or methods improve outcomes—like faster response times, reduced risk, or better resource efficiency.
 C. I ensure Predictive Services products are grounded in practical application, such as improving lead time for fire danger ratings or optimizing resource deployment.
 D. Lead trials of new predictive tools in operational settings, refining them based on feedback and performance.
 E. None of the above.
Only the first two (2) pages of your resume will be used to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. Any content beyond the second page will not be reviewed.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
8. Do the first two (2) pages of your resume include all the information needed to determine your qualifications for this position, and do you understand that any additional pages will not be reviewed?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Certify that all of the information provided in this questionnaire is true, accurate, and submitted in good faith to the best of knowledge and belief.
9. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.

 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not wish to certify. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected