Position Title
PREVENTION AND EDUCATION SPECIALIST (FAP)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
JRM-25-435 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 27, 2025 to Monday, September 1, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds (NAF) Employment.  This section will be used to determine if you possess the specialized experience, education, and/or licensure to qualify for the NAF Prevention and Education Specialist (FAP) position. Failure to meet the specialized experience, education, licensure, and/or failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below; official transcripts are attached/provided; and/or valid licensure attached/provided.


1. In order to meet the qualification requirements for 32 CFR Part 61, Subpart B "FAP Standards," do you possess a bachelor's degree from an accredited university or college in any of the following disciplines? Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position.

 A. Social Work
 B. Psychology
 C. Marriage and Family Therapy
 D. Counseling
 E. Behavioral Science
 F. Public Health
 G. I do not have one of the degrees identified above.
2. In order to meet the qualification requirements for 32 CFR Part 61, Subpart B "FAP Standards," do you have two years of experience in a family and children's services public agency or family and children's services community organization, one year of which is in prevention, intervention, or treatment of child abuse and domestic abuse.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. In order to meet the basic qualification requirements for the 0101 series, which of the following do you possess?

 A. I have at least 3 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree.
 B. I have at least 3 years’ specialized experience in providing prevention and education services in problematic sexual behaviors in children and youth; as well as domestic, interpersonal, and family violence, to include child abuse and neglect.
 C. I have an equivalent combination of education and experience.
 D. I do not have any of the above.
4. Choose the statement that best describes your work experience related to this position (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 A. Has 5+ years of full time work experience in the prevention, intervention, or treatment of child abuse and domestic abuse.
 B. Has 3+ years of full time work experience in the prevention, intervention, or treatment of child abuse and domestic abuse.
 C. Has 1+ years of full time work experience in the prevention, intervention, or treatment of child abuse and domestic abuse.
 D. None of the statements apply to me.
5. Choose the statement that best applies to you. (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 A. Currently holds a Prevention and Education Specialist (FAP) or related position in the prevention, intervention, or treatment of child abuse and domestic abuse within CNIC.
 B. Currently holds a Prevention and Education Specialist (FAP) or related position in the prevention, intervention, or treatment of child abuse and domestic abuse within DoD.
 C. Has held a Prevention and Education Specialist (FAP) or related position in the prevention, intervention, or treatment of child abuse and domestic abuse within the last 3 years.
 D. None of the statements apply to me.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected