Position Title
Utility Systems Repairer-Operator
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
PW-1547-DEVA-25-12778777-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, August 26, 2025 to Monday, September 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a United States Citizen?

For more information, review Employment of U.S Citizens.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.  
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. This is a Career-Seasonal position and subject to release and recall procedures. A permanent career-seasonal position includes all the benefits of permanent employment but does not provide employment on a full year-round basis. As such, the selectee will be in a non-pay/non-duty status for 1 pay period during their first service year in this position.

After their first service year, Career Seasonal employees are guaranteed to work at least 6 months per year, but not more than 50 weeks per year. An employment agreement is required and can be changed annually. Are you willing to accept a permanent, career seasonal position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Utility System Repairer-Operator, WG-4742-09 position. Your responses to this questionnaire in conjunction with other portions of your completed application will be evaluated to determine your qualifications. Please carefully follow all instructions before submitting your responses. You must select only ONE response for each item. If you change a response, be certain to unclick the incorrect response before you submit the application. Once you have submitted your application, items that are left blank will not receive credit. Please respond to each statement. If you leave any responses blank, your score may be negatively impacted. You must document your experience in your resume.
Ability to do the work of the position without more than normal supervision (Screen Out)
1. From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience and/or training that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. YOU MUST DOCUMENT/VERIFY YOUR RESPONSE IN YOUR RESUME/APPLICATION.

 A. I have Utility Systems Repairer-Operator experience in the repair and installation of water and/or wastewater pipes, valves, fire hydrants and related public water and/or wastewater systems. I have performed troubleshooting on various water treatment equipment such as chemical solution feeders and chlorinators, mixed media pressure filters, slow sand filtration, cartridge type filtration systems, pressure regulators. I utilize hand and power tools associated with this trade. I perform these duties on independently subject to occasional inspection.
 B. I have Utility Systems Repairer-Operator experience in in the repair and installation of water and/or wastewater pipes, valves, fire hydrants and related public water and/or wastewater system appurtenances. I utilize hand and power tools associated with this trade. I perform these duties on my own initiative and under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 C. I have entry-level Utility Systems Repairer/Operator Helper experience in assisting the operation and maintenance of a water & wastewater treatment facility, or a utility system related to water production and treatment. I utilize hand and power tools associated with this trade. I perform these duties under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level Utility Systems Repairer-Operator who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 D. I am able to perform simple plumbing tasks, but I know little or nothing about wastewater treatment/collection or water production/treatment/distribution but I'm willing to learn.
 E. I do not have experience with the work described above.
Water Treatment
2. I have the following California Water Treatment Operator License (T2) or equivalent license from another state and can meet the reciprocity conditions. See the following link for those conditions: Drinking Water Treatment and Distribution System Operators (https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/drinking_water/certlic/occupations/DWopcert.html) You must upload a copy of your valid license, or you may be marked ineligible.

 A. Yes, I have a California Water Treatment Operator License T2 or equivalent license from another State and can meet the reciprocity conditions.
 B. I do not have any of the license listed above or an equivalent license.
Water Distribution
3. I have the following California Water Distribution license (D2), or equivalent license from another state and can meet the reciprocity conditions Drinking Water Treatment & Distribution System Operators (https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/drinking_water/certlic/occupations/DWopcert.html) You must upload a copy of your valid license, or you may be marked ineligible.

 A. Yes, I have a California Water Distribution license (D2), or equivalent license from another state and can meet the reciprocity conditions.
 B. I do not have the license listed above or an equivalent license.
Wastewater Treatment
4. I have a California Wastewater Treatment license WWTP Grade 1 or equivalent license from another state and can meet the Examination Waiver (Formally Known As Reciprocity) See the following link for those conditions Wastewater Operator Certification Program (https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/water_issues/programs/operator_certification/operator_certification.html) You must upload a copy of your valid license, or you may be marked ineligible.

 A. Yes, I have a California Wastewater Treatment license WWTP Grade 1 or equivalent license from another state and can meet the Examination Waiver (Formally Known As Reciprocity).
 B. I do not have any of the licenses listed above or an equivalent license.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected