Position Title
Management and Program Analyst
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OFAM-IMP-12786780-ERO Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 27, 2025 to Wednesday, September 3, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Indianapolis, IN
 C. Euless, TX
2. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-14 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
4. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
5. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
6. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
7. In addition to the application and application questionnaire, this position requires a USA Hire online assessment, which measures critical general competencies required to perform the job. If you are required to take the USA Hire assessment, you will be emailed a unique URL to access the USA Hire system. The USA Hire online assessment must be completed within 48 hours, following the close of this announcement. You will have the opportunity to request a testing accommodation for the assessment should you have a disability covered under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). See the How to Apply and Next Steps within the Job Opportunity Announcement for additional details.

Do you acknowledge that you may be required to take an additional online USA Hire assessment, via an email link sent to you after completion of this application, and that failure to complete any portion of the assessment will remove your application from consideration?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that by not taking the additional required USA Hire assessment that I will be removed from further consideration.
8. Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-14 grade level?
 A. I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, performing duties such as; Planning program evaluations or analyses for a variety of purposes; Developing program evaluations or analyses for a variety of purposes; Using business intelligence or database software tools to assess data on assigned staffing levels, hiring, and attrition for an organization; Providing consultation to leadership on a program's requirements and goals.
 B. I do not possess the experience described above.
Assessment 1
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
1. Indicate the extent of your experience overseeing the planning, direction, and execution of a program.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in planning, scheduling, and carrying out programs or program segments (including metrics, deliverables, and program management), but have not yet served as a program manager.
 C. I have independently managed several segments of a large program. I was accountable for checking progress against goals and performing the appropriate reporting.
 D. I have held overall responsibility for managing a large program consisting of multiple segments. I was accountable for determining metrics, checking progress, and performing the appropriate reporting.
 E. I have extensive experience overseeing several large programs that were complex, large in scope, and involved multiple organizational entities. I have reviewed the reports of subordinate personnel related to associated program metrics and progress.
2. Indicate the extent of your experience serving as a subject matter expert (SME) for assigned regional facilities portfolios.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have been responsible for assisting other SMEs with assigned regional facilities portfolios.
 C. I have served as a SME for assigned regional facilities portfolios.
 D. I have extensive experience serving as a SME for assigned regional facilities portfolios. I have been called upon to serve as a SME for intra-agency working groups due to my expertise.
3. Do you have experience providing expert advice to management on facilities programs?

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Indicate the extent of your experience developing and evaluating policies.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in the development of new policies for an organization.
 C. I have developed new policies for an organization under the direct supervision of a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have independently developed policies for an organization, and have been responsible for implementing these policies and evaluating the outcome.
 E. I have directed others in the development and implementation of new policies for an organization. I have overseen the collection of metrics designed to evaluate the outcome.
5. Do you have experience contributing to the development of standardized design criteria?

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Select the choice which best describes your ability to negotiate with internal and external groups.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have conferred with others on an individual basis to resolve work-related problems or I have held discussions aimed at persuading others to agree with my viewpoint.
 C. I have conferred and negotiated with internal groups to facilitate program implementation or find mutually acceptable approaches to work-related problems.
 D. I have successfully conducted negotiations about sensitive, work-related subjects with both internal and external groups, including union representatives.
7. Indicate the extent of your experience providing technical direction in the area of facilities management.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have reviewed the project plans of my peers and have suggested modifications and course corrections.
 C. I have provided technical direction to others in the area of facilities management as a team lead, supervisor, or acting supervisor.
 D. I am considered a technical subject matter expert in the area of facilities management. Stakeholders and management officials within my organization seek me out on a regular basis for my expertise in this area.
8. Select the choice which best describes your experience in communicating general and technical information to all levels of employees.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have communicated with others within my organization to ensure that professional and technical standards and customer service requirements were met as part of my regular job duties.
 C. I have communicated extensively with others within my organization to present technical briefings, explain processes or procedures, serve as liaison between work groups, and lead teams or work groups to meet project goals or deadlines.
 D. I have communicated extensively with others both inside and outside my organization to present sensitive technical briefings or research presentations, to serve as the main liaison with other organizations, or to lead interagency task forces on special projects.
9. Indicate the extent of your experience serving as a point of contact for issues impacting facilities portfolio components.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have gathered information relevant to issues impacting facilities portfolio components. That information was used by the main program point of contact to develop messages, briefings, and responses to questions.
 C. I have experience serving as the main point of contact for issues impacting facilities portfolio components.
 D. I have extensive experience serving as the subject matter expert and main point of contact for issues impacting facilities portfolio components.
10. Indicate the extent of your experience coordinating efforts to meet complex planning needs and unanticipated requirements.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have established priorities for a team or group project and I have made adjustments to accommodate unexpected changes in project resources or goals or unanticipated changes in the work place.
 C. I have established priorities for projects I coordinated that involved multiple teams or organizations and I have made adjustments to accommodate sudden major changes, problems, or setbacks.
11. Select the statement that best describes your ability to maintain liaison and deal effectively with high-level management officials at all organizational levels within the government and private sector.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have experience in establishing and maintaining liaison with officials within the agency, to include making informal presentations on existing or new policies to counterparts and lower level managers, and planning coordinated responses for my unit.
 C. I have considerable experience in initiating, maintaining and expanding liaison with persons in other program offices, agencies, and non-governmental interest groups.
 D. I have experience in maintaining and/or expanding liaison with a broad and extensive range of persons and/or groups in and out of the government, to include other program offices, state and local agencies, and public interest or advocacy groups.
 E. I have experience in establishing and maintaining liaison with executive and senior-level management officials in internal and external program offices, federal, state, and local governments, and non-government officials (e.g., private industry, community organizations) to create mutually advantageous official relations in agency program matters of interest.
12. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of facilities management concepts and principles.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training in facilities management concepts and principles, but I have not applied this training on the job.
 C. I have a basic understanding of facilities management concepts and principles, and I have experience applying these concepts and principles to the routine functions of my job.
 D. I have extensive knowledge of facilities management concepts and principles, and I have experience applying these concepts and principles to enhance the operations within an organization.
13. Indicate the extent of your experience with using analytical tools or methods to develop policies and regulations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have taken courses or received basic training on some analytical tools or methods to develop policies and regulations.
 C. I regularly use basic analytical tools or methods to develop policies and regulations.
 D. I regularly use complex analytical tools or methods to develop policies and regulations. The policies and regulations I have developed have been implemented.
14. Indicate the extent of your experience providing written and oral reports with conclusions, alternatives, and recommendations on revenue, audit, and payroll service matters.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others on providing written or oral reports with conclusions, alternatives, and recommendations on revenue, audit, and payroll service matters.
 C. I have provided written and oral reports with conclusions, alternatives, and recommendations on revenue, audit, and payroll service matters to my work unit.
 D. I have provided written and oral reports with conclusions, alternatives, and recommendations on revenue, audit, and payroll service matters to internal and external stakeholders.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected