Position Title
SUPERVISORY IT SPECIALIST (PLCYPLN) (TITLE 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-12757667-AR-25-125-2 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 14, 2025 to Monday, July 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1. I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. If selected, are you willing to accept this indefinite position, and understand that the position may be terminated upon receipt of a 30 day notice (due to return of original employee hired to backfill/funding/workload).  

 A. Yes
 B. No
Military Requirements
1. Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 A. Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at (JFHQ G6- Chief Information Office) (See last SF50).
 B. Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at a NC ARNG unit/activity, other than (JFHQ G6- Chief Information Office) (See last SF50).
 C. Area 3 - Within the NC Army National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 D. Area 4 - I am currently assigned to one of the following: Active Duty Army, Army Reserve, or a State/Territory Army National Guard other than North Carolina.
 E. I am not currently assigned to one of the areas listed above.
2. Are you currently assigned militarily as an Officer (LTC - COL)?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.
1. Select the one statement that best describes the Minimum Requirements that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-2210-14 Supv IT Specialist.
 A. I HAVE experience, education or training that has 1) provided me with a basic knowledge of data processing functions and general management principles that enabled me to understand the stages required to automate a work process, and 2) that may have been gained in work such as computer operator or assistant, computer sales representative, program analyst, or other positions that required the use or adaptation of computer programs and systems.
 B. I DO NOT HAVE experience, education or training listed above.
2. Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-2210-14 Supv IT Specialist.
 A. I HAVE at least 36 months experience, education, or training 1) that approaches techniques and requirements appropriate to an assigned computer applications area or computer specialty area in an organization, 2) included planning the sequence of actions necessary to accomplish the assignment where this entailed coordination with others outside the organizational unit and development of project controls, 3) required adaptations of guidelines or precedents to meet the needs of the assignment, 4) in preparing documentation on cost/benefit studies, 5) in managing the function of the work to be performed, and 6) which includes leading, directing and assigning work of personnel.
 B. I DO NOT have 36 months of the experience, education or training listed above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected