Position Title
SUPERVISORY STAFF ACCOUNTANT
Agency
Securities and Exchange Commission
Announcement Number
25-IN-12754907-MJB Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 3, 2025 to Thursday, July 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Have you served on a Schedule C appointment or as a political appointee anytime within the last 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current SEC employee serving on a permanent or conditional appointment? 

To determine your eligibility, please refer to your last SF-50.  To be eligible, your tenure code must be 1 or 2 AND your status must reflect competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1). 

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. From the options below, please indicate the choice that BEST describes your situation:
 A. I am an external candidate and I certify that I have read and understand that should I be selected for the position, the resume and application materials I have submitted will be used to determine salary. I also understand that I will not be permitted to provide an updated resume to OHR after the application period has closed.
 B. I am a current SEC employee and I certify that I have read and understand that should I be selected for this position and it results in a promotion, the standard percentage increase will be applied (i.e., 6% for non-supervisory and 10% for supervisory positions) to determine my salary. I understand that should I be selected for this position and it results in lateral movement (i.e. no change in grade) I will maintain my current salary. I also understand that if I should be selected for this position and it results in a change in grade from an SK-15 to an SK-16, I will maintain my current salary.
3. How did you hear about this position?
--Select-- 
--Select--
American Economic Association (AEA-JOE Network)
Career Fair (Please specify below)
College/University Job Board (e.g., Handshake, Symplicity)
Email from SEC Recruitment Team
Facebook
Friend (non-SEC Employee)
Friend (SEC Employee) (Please specify below)
I am a current SEC Employee or Contractor
Indeed
Job Board (Please specify below)
LinkedIn – Job Post
LinkedIn – Message from SEC Recruiter
SEC Careers Website (www.sec.gov/careers)
SEC Information Session
Social Science Research Network (SSRN)
USAJOBS – Job Search
USAJOBS – Message from SEC Recruiter
USAJOBS – Saved Search Email
X (formerly known as "Twitter")
Other source (e.g., job board, print ad, professional organization, website) (Please specify below)
4. Please specify based on your selection above as applicable:
Assessment 1
1. Are you a current, permanent or conditional, competitive service employee within the Securities and Exchange Commission? Please refer to block 24 for Tenure (i.e. 1 or 2) and block 34 for Position Occupied (i.e. 1) on your latest Standard Form 50
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Select the statement that best describes your education and/or experience.
 A. I have a degree in accounting.
 B. I have a degree in a related field, such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included, or was supplemented by, 24 semester hours in accounting or auditing, of which no more than 6 semester hours were in business law.
 C. I completed 24 semester hours in accounting or auditing courses, of which no more than 6 semester hours were in business law; AND four years of experience in accounting and/or auditing or an equivalent combination of experience, college-level education, and training in accounting and/or auditing.
 D. I am a Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; AND have four years of experience in accounting and/or auditing, or an equivalent combination of experience, college-level education, and training in accounting and/or auditing.
 E. I have four years of experience in accounting and/or auditing, or an equivalent combination of experience, college-level education, and training, AND have completed the requirements for a bachelor's degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but less than the required 24 semester hours, AND (1) have successfully worked at the full performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, AND (2) a panel of professional accountants or auditors have determined that my accounting/auditing knowledge is comparable to that associated with a 4-year course of study, AND (3) have education, training, and experience fully meeting the requirements of the position except for the 24 semester hours in accounting and/or auditing.
 F. My level of education and/or experience is not described above and therefore, I am ineligible for the position.
3. From the descriptions below, select the response that best describes the experience that demonstrates your ability to perform as a SK-510-17, Supervisory Staff Accountant.
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS/SK- 14/15 level (1) reviewing or auditing financial statements included in Commission filings, and (2) resolving accounting and financial reporting issues and (3) communicating conclusions in a clear and concise manner both orally and in writing.
 B. My level of experience is not described above.
4. Please select the response that BEST describes your experience with interpreting accounting and financial reporting releases of the Securities and Exchange Commission:
 A. I have independently applied knowledge of GAAP, IFRS, PCAOB, and Commission rules, regulations, and interpretations, and Division interpretations to review and evaluate financial statements and disclosure documents of public companies.
 B. I have independently applied knowledge of GAAP, IFRS, PCAOB, and Commission rules, regulations, and interpretations, and Division interpretations to review and evaluate financial statements and disclosure documents of public companies, and prepared memorandums or other written analyses about such disclosures including recommendations of appropriate course(s) of action based on the results of audit, review or examination.
 C. I have experience applying knowledge of GAAP, IFRS, PCAOB, and Commission rules, regulations, and interpretations, and Division interpretations with assistance from higher-level staff in the review and evaluation of the financial statements and disclosure documents.
 D. I have limited experience with applying knowledge of GAAP, IFRS, PCAOB, and Commission rules, regulations, and interpretations, and Division interpretations to review and evaluate financial statements disclosure documents of public companies.
 E. I have no knowledge of GAAP, IFRS, PCAOB, and Commission rules, regulations, and interpretations, and Division interpretations to review and evaluate financial statements and disclosure documents of public companies.
5. I have experience performing research using the following technical tools guidance (select all that apply):
 A. Accounting Research Manager or another comprehensive accounting research tool
 B. PCAOB
 C. FASB
 D. IASB
 E. Division of Corporation Finance’s Financial Reporting Manual
 F. Division of Corporation Finance’s other disclosure guidance including Disclosure Guidance Topics, Dear CFO letters, and other guidance
 G. Staff Accounting Bulletins (SABs)
 H. None of the above
6. From the list below select the statements that describe your experience as a team leader. (select all that apply).
 A. I have directed or developed work to be accomplished by subordinates including setting priorities and preparing schedules for the completion of work and adjusted as needed with no supervision.
 B. I have directed or developed work to be accomplished by subordinates including setting priorities and preparing schedules for the completion of work and adjusted as needed with limited supervision.
 C. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees with limited supervision.
 D. I have given advice, counsel or instruction to employees on program specific, technical, and/or administrative matters with limited supervision.
 E. I have no managerial/supervisory experience, but have been designated as a team leader, assisting the immediate supervisor with assignment of tasks.
 F. I have not had experience responding to questions and inquiries as shown above.
7. Select from the list below your experience distributing and balancing workload and tasks among employees in accordance with established workflow and employee skill levels and occupational specializations to assure timely accomplishment of the work unit's mission.
 A. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 B. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 E. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
8. Please select the response that BEST describes your experience managing policy or interpretative initiatives:
 A. I have managed at least one policy or interpretative project. Projects include Commission, an Office or Division initiatives including Interpretative Releases, Disclosure Guidance Topics, Compliance and Disclosure Interpretations, Staff Accounting Bulletins, or other guidance. Other policy or interpretative initiatives outside the Commission include publicly distributed audit or advisory firm memorandums, guidance, or other written analyses related to the interpretation of requirements issued by the Commission, FASB, IASB, or PCAOB.
 B. I have participated as a member of a team throughout the course of a policy or interpretative project, as described above.
 C. I have participated in a limited capacity to advise on technical matters associated with a policy or interpretative project.
 D. I have no experience with policy or interpretative initiatives.
9. Please select the response that BEST describes your experience with providing advice and technical guidance on a policy or interpretative initiative or rulemaking:
 A. I have made accounting or financial reporting policy, interpretative, or rulemaking decisions with limited supervision by a senior employee. Decisions may include accounting policy elections for a public company, audit firm interpretations or policies, proposed Commission rules, etc.
 B. I have participated as a member of a team throughout the course of efforts that made accounting or financial reporting policy, interpretative, or rulemaking decisions with limited supervision by a senior employee.
 C. I have made accounting or financial reporting policy, interpretative, or rulemaking recommendations to a senior employee.
 D. I do not have any of the experience described above.
10. Please select the response that BEST describes your experience with drafting written communications.
 A. I have drafted written communications on complex accounting and reporting issues under close supervision by a senior employee.
 B. I have drafted written communications on complex accounting and reporting issues with limited supervision by a senior employee.
 C. I do not have any of the experience described above.
 D. I have drafted written communications on complex accounting and reporting issuers with limited supervision by a senior employee that was shared with subordinates, peers, more senior staff, and external parties.
11. Please select the response that BEST describes your experience with oral communications.
 A. I have participated in meetings and orally presented complex accounting and reporting issues to subordinates, peers, more senior staff, and external parties at those meetings.
 B. I have led meetings and orally presented in a public forum, e.g. conference or webcast on complex accounting and reporting issues to subordinates, peers, more senior staff, and external parties, including experts in the accounting or regulatory profession.
 C. I do not have any of the experience described above.
 D. I have led meetings and orally presented complex accounting and reporting issues to subordinates, peers, more senior staff, and external parties at those meetings.
12. Select from the list below your experience balancing workload and tasks to assure timely accomplishment of the work unit's mission.
 A. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 B. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
13. Select the statement that best describes your ability to plan and execute work.
 A. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 B. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected