Position Title
Accounting Technician
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12805324 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 22, 2025 to Monday, October 6, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Accounting Technician position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you have at least 1 year specialized experience with accounting techniques and procedures sufficient to understand account relationships within an extensive account structure of an automated system?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Based upon how you answered question 1, please provide detailed information regarding where in your application materials this information can be found the supports your response to this question. You must provide job title(s) and date(s) of employment. If your experience was gained from a federal position, you must also include the pay plan, series and grade (e.g. NF-0201-04 / GS-0343-11, etc.) and date(s) of employment). If no information can be provided, please indicate 'n/a' in the box provided.
3. How many years' of experience do you have with automated accounting systems?
 A. I have 5+ years' experience with the above.
 B. I have 3 to 5 years' experience with the above.
 C. I have 1 to 3 years' experience with the above.
 D. I have less than 1 year experience with the above.
 E. I have no experience with the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. Do you have experience with recording fixed assets and inventories?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. How many years' experience do you have in general accounting (e.g. providing general accounting support, completing basic accounting journal entries, and/or assisting in month end closing of financial statements)?
 A. I have 3+ years’ experience with the above.
 B. I have 1 to 3 years’ experience with the above.
 C. I have less than 1 year experience with the above.
 D. I have no experience with the above.
6. How many years' experience do you have using Microsoft Office Programs (e.g., Word, Excel, Power Point, Outlook) for accounting purposes?
 A. I have 3+ years’ experience with the above.
 B. I have 1 to 3 years’ experience with the above.
 C. I have less than 1 year experience with the above.
 D. I have no experience with the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected