Position Title
Supervisory Recreation Specialist (Fitness Director)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
FFR25-0682 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 23, 2025 to Wednesday, August 6, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1

Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Supervisory Recreation Specialist position.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you have one year of specialized experience that demonstrates the ability to apply the principles of one or more specialty areas of recreation at GS-9 level or above?

Examples of qualifying specialized experience include:
Planning, organizing, coordinating, supervising, or evaluating community, industrial, outdoor, institutional, or other recreational programs.
Planning, establishing, or evaluating a recreational curriculum for junior college or higher academic levels.
Instructing in the principles and techniques of recreational program planning and management.
Serving in a leadership role in the programs and activities of local, regional, and/or national recreational organizations.

*Must be supported by your resume and applicable SF-50s
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Select the option that best describes your supervisory experience.
 A. I have over 5 years of supervisory experience with the Department of Defense/ Department of the Navy
 B. I have over 5 years of supervisory experience with non-Department of Defense/ Department of the Navy
 C. I have less than 5 of years supervisory experience with Department of Defense/ Department of the Navy
 D. I have less than of 5 years supervisory experience with non-Department of Defense/ Department of the Navy
 E. I have no experience in the above.
3. Select the option that best describes your skills and experience in developing, planning, conducting, leading classes, and carrying out large comprehensive fitness and sports programs to meet the needs of a large participating community.  (group exercise, personal training, etc.)
 A. I have over 5 years of experience teaching Department of the Navy courses to active-duty personnel and civilians
 B. I have less than 5 years of experience teaching Department of the Navy courses to active-duty personnel and civilians
 C. I have over 5 years of experience teaching other Department of Defense (Army, Marine, Air Force, etc.) courses
 D. I have less than 5 years of experience teaching other Department of Defense (Army, Marine, Air Force, etc.) courses
 E. I have no experience in the above.
4. Select the option that best describes your experience and knowledge of procurement, accounting systems and internal control (inventory, cash funds, i.e.) procedures.
 A. I have over 5 years managing internal controls for Department of Defense/ Department of the Navy Fitness Programs
 B. I have over 5 years managing internal controls for non-Department of Defense/ Department of the Navy Fitness Programs
 C. I have less than 5 years managing internal controls for Department of Defense/ Department of the Navy Fitness Programs
 D. I have less than 5 years managing internal controls for non-Department of Defense/ Department of the Navy Fitness
 E. I have no experience in the above.
5. How many years of supervisory experience do you have?
 A. I have 5+ years of supervisory experience.
 B. I have 3 to 5 years of supervisory experience.
 C. I have 1 to 3 years of supervisory experience.
 D. I have less than 1 year of supervisory experience.
 E. I have no supervisory experience.
6. Select the option that best describes your credentials.
 A. I possess an accredited Certifications from DOD/ DON (Command Fitness Leader, Mission Nutrition / Navy Operational Fitness Fueling Series – NOFFS)
 B. I have a Degree (Graduate/Master’s level) in Fitness/Nutrition, Physical Therapy, or other related fields
 C. I have a Degree (Undergraduate level) In Fitness/Nutrition, Physical Therapy, or other related fields
 D. I do not have Degree (Undergraduate level) In Fitness/Nutrition, Physical Therapy, or other related fields
7. How many years of experience do you have applying knowledge of a wide range of principles, concepts, techniques, exercise equipment of fitness and sports, in conjunction with experience in promoting events and programs?
 A. I have over 5 years of experience with the Department of Defense/ Department of the Navy
 B. I have over 5 years of experience with non-Department of Defense/ Department of the Navy
 C. I have less than 5 years of experience with the Department of Defense/ Department of the Navy
 D. I have less than 5 years of experience with non-Department of Defense/ Department of the Navy
 E. I have none of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected