Position Title
Supervisory Human Resources Specialist (Recruitment & Placement Branch Chief)
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12787071-HROC-IMP-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 20, 2025 to Friday, August 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current USCIS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. The Reemployment Priority List (RPL) is the mechanism DHS uses to give reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees separated by reduction-in-force (RIF), or fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a former USCIS employee?  If so, have you met all of the following criteria?
Registered for the RPL program, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupied a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current/most recent performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent, and
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606
For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, visit 5 CFR 330 Subpart B.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
My SF-50 showing Separation - RIF. If that is not available yet, then official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who is in a permanent position that is in the competitive service (see block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type)?

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of our SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Camp Springs, MD
 B. Bloomington, MN
 C. South Burlington, VT
2. I acknowledge the following conditions if I choose to submit my resume through the USAJOBS Resume Builder:
I understand that resumes submitted through USAJOBS Resume Builder are converted to a PDF format when they are transmitted to USA Staffing from the USAJOBS applicant interface and additional spaces/page gaps are added to resumes during the Resume Builder conversion process;
Based on the above conditions, I understand that USCIS strongly encourages me to save my resume to a PDF document and upload the PDF document instead of submitting my resume created through Resume Builder;
I understand that USCIS' human resources will only review the first 2 pages of my resume to determine eligibility/qualifications for this position;
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I have met this requirement for consideration.

(Note: Additional guidance regarding this requirement is available within the How to Submit Your Resume section of the USCIS Resume Requirement FAQs.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 D. No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.
4. Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) from the Federal Government within the last 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5.

This job is being posted for individuals who reside within the local commuting area* of the announced duty location on a permanent basis. All candidates must meet this requirement, with the exception of Refugee, Asylum and International Operations (RAIO) overseas employees approved for rotation OR unless on an approved exemption OR at an approved USCIS location. In these cases you can apply for any location.

Do you reside within the local commuting area* of the announced duty location on a permanent basis OR are a RAIO overseas employee approved for rotation OR on an approved exemption** OR at an approved USCIS location***?

*Local commuting area is defined as a distance that you can reasonably travel back and forth daily to the announced duty location from your permanent residence.

**An approved exemption is: military spouses, approved RA, or temporary long distance remote status (documentation required).

***An approved USCIS location is defined as pre authorized space designated for use by the program, office or directorate.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

The address listed on your USA Jobs profile or resume must show that you reside within the local commuting area of the announced duty location.
If on an approved exemption you must provide the most recent approval.
If at an approved USCIS location you must provide the original reporting instructions.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. If your status changes, requiring you to report to a physical location you may be directed to report to one of the duty locations listed in the original job opportunity announcement without relocation expenses.
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I understand this requirement.
By answering NO to this question, I am asking to be removed from further consideration for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a current USCIS employee who opted to take part of the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) and are currently in an Administrative Leave category?
 A. Yes.
 B. No.
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. GS-14 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
2. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
3. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-14. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-14 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
The following section contains a multitude of question types. If you see a radio button, you can only select one response. If you see a checkbox, you may select all that apply.
4. Select the human resources regulations or guidelines that you have applied to resolve workplace disputes.
 A. Title 5 U.S.C. Chapter 71: Labor Management Relations
 B. Title 5 U.S.C. Chapter 75: Adverse Actions
 C. Title 5 U.S.C. Chapter 43: Performance Appraisal
 D. Office of Personnel Management guidelines
 E. Federal case law (e.g., Merit System Protection Board (MSPB), Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO), or Federal Labor Relations Authority (FLRA) rulings)
 F. None of the above
5. Select the Human Resources policies and procedures you have applied in your work.
 A. Code of Federal Regulations
 B. Executive Orders
 C. Agency policies and/or directives
 D. Bargaining Unit Agreement/Collective Bargaining Agreements
 E. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Regulation
 F. Merit System Protection Board decisions
 G. Delegated Examining Unit Handbook
 H. Settlement Agreements
 I. Privacy Act Comptroller General
 J. Title 5 United States Code
 K. Foreign Affairs Manual
 L. Freedom of Information Act
 M. Family Medical Leave Act
 N. Federal Labor Relations Authority Decisions
 O. Arbitration Decisions
 P. None of the above
6. Select the Human Resources functions you have performed to provide administrative support to customers (e.g., managers, administrative officers, selecting officials, applicants, employees, union officials).
 A. Recruitment and staffing (e.g., position classification, position management)
 B. Full Time Equivalent (FTE)/Individual Position Number (IPN) Utilization
 C. Personnel actions processing
 D. Adverse Actions
 E. Training on human resources topics
 F. None of the above
7. Select the areas on which you have provided Human Resource advice.
 A. Superior Qualifications
 B. Noncompetitive Hiring Authorities
 C. Selective Placement Factors
 D. Recruitment Incentives
 E. Retention Incentives
 F. Relocation Incentives
 G. Category Rating
 H. Veterans Preference
 I. Merit Promotion
 J. Public Job Notices
 K. None of the above
8. Select the audiences for whom you have written correspondence to convey classification and position management information.
 A. Executives
 B. Non-executive supervisors
 C. Internal Human Resources personnel outside of your office
 D. Colleagues (e.g., peers, other administrative officials)
 E. Your organization's general workforce
 F. None of the above
9. Select the human resources functions you have performed independently.
 A. Created personnel actions
 B. Approved personnel actions
 C. Reviewed current staffing levels and predicted future needs
 D. Formulated budgets
 E. Attended job fairs to source candidates
 F. Reviewed budget to determine if cuts needed to be made
 G. Reviewed candidate applications and made selection recommendations
 H. Interviewed potential candidates and made selection recommendations
 I. Determined the number of personnel needed to cover current workload
 J. Reviewed announcement drafts
 K. None of the above
10. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience measuring workload based on personnel requirements?
 A. I completed education and/or training related to measuring workloads but do not have professional experience.
 B. I independently monitored my workload to ensure personnel shortcomings and workload requirements were met.
 C. I participated in a work group or shared team to devise and monitor workload and personnel balances to accomplish organizational needs.
 D. I served as a primary contributor by monitoring and advising the management of my workload and the workload of others
 E. I developed a method of tracking workload demands in contrast to employee ratios based on varied levels of experience and complexity.
 F. I provided feedback on my workload balance strategic efforts and provided feedback for process improvement.
 G. None of the above
11. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience developing program policies for implementation?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education developing policies.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to developing policies, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I provided input to supervisors or subject matter experts on the development of new policies.
 D. I drafted policy proposals for the application of policy to a specific program.
 E. I independently developed and implemented new policies that directly impacted programs.
12. Which personnel-related items/documents have you completed?
 A. Personnel Budget Projections
 B. Budget Requests for New Personnel
 C. Position Description
 D. Job Analysis
 E. Disciplinary Action
 F. Recruitment Actions
 G. None of the above
13. What statements apply to your experience developing communication strategies designed to encourage employee innovation and participation in overcoming operational challenges and policy changes.
 A. I coached and mentored employees, both formally and informally, in order to improve performance, identify leadership development opportunities, and empower individual employees to become change agents within the agency and department.
 B. I led other supervisors in fostering open feedback and communication, continued development of leadership skills, and responsibility to develop their own subordinates.
 C. I have given advice, counsel or instruction to employees on both work and administrative matters.
 D. I have taken training on strategic communication designed to create corporate visioning and culture.
 E. I have written or co-authored communication strategies for senior leaders to execute.
 F. None of the above statements describe my experience.
14. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience developing action plans to achieve goals?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to developing action plans to achieve goals.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to developing action plans to achieve goals, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I reviewed office goals for alignment with the organizational mission.
 D. I created action plans to implement and meet goals across program areas.
 E. I participated in developing action items to support establishing goals for a specific program area.
 F. I led others in the development of actions items to support specific goals in a program areas.
15. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience delivering an interactive curriculum that met desired learning objectives?
 A. I have no experience, education, or training related to delivering an interactive curriculum.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to delivering an interactive curriculum, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I developed learning objectives to ensure alignment with workforce learning needs.
 D. I designed a curriculum while considering appropriate instructional methodologies (e.g., webinar or instructor-led) to optimize efficient delivery of learning.
 E. I implemented learning programs by weighing various and competing priorities and determining optimal resource allocation.
16. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience developing and/or delivering training in written communication?
 A. I have no experience, education, or training related to developing/delivering training in written communication.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to developing/delivering written communication training, but do not have professional experience
 C. I drafted outlines and tailored content of training curriculum based on customer needs.
 D. I presented written communication training using existing curriculum and materials
 E. I independently created written communication training curriculum and materials.
17. Select the activities you have performed related to training development and delivery.
 A. Created new training curriculum
 B. Created new training materials (e.g., PowerPoints, worksheets, guides, graphs etc.)
 C. Delivered in-person training to others (e.g., classroom-based sessions)
 D. Delivered remote training to others (e.g., video-based meetings, webinars)
 E. Updated existing training materials (e.g., PowerPoints, worksheets, guides, graphs)
 F. None of the above
18. Which activities have you completed related to supervisory and leadership training?
 A. I personalized lesson plans (i.e. check for learning, questioning techniques, overview, review, personal experience).
 B. I modified lesson content to adapt to new guidance, processes, and policies.
 C. I prepared instructor training.
 D. I prepared instructor observations.
 E. I presented instructor training.
 F. I presented instructor observations.
 G. None of the above.
19. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience making recommendations for entry on duty (EOD) determinations for applicants, employees, and/or contract personnel?
 A. Consulted with a senior-level employee on a determination in which the individual's background was outside of acceptable risk thresholds.
 B. Consulted with a senior-level employee on a determination for an individual with minor infractions in their history.
 C. Recommended a determination for an individual whose background history indicated no cause for concern relative to established eligibility thresholds.
 D. Recommended a determination for an individual with minor infractions in their history.
 E. Trained others on how to determine EOD by reviewing security paperwork against eligibility thresholds.
 F. Reviewed EOD recommendations provided by other employees to make the final determination.
 G. Completed education and/or training related to making recommendations for EOD determinations, but do not have professional experience.
 H. None of the above.
20. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience responding to audits?
 A. I ensured support provided to auditors met the audit request.
 B. I approved formal responses to audits and ensured the timely completion of corrective actions.
 C. I interpreted audit findings and recommended corrective actions.
 D. I developed and implemented a corrective action plan.
 E. I completed education and/or training related to responding to audits, but do not have professional experience.
 F. I have no experience, training, or education related to responding to audits.
21. Select your highest achievement in influencing and leading others to accomplish your agency's or organization's priorities.
 A. I have moved important initiatives forward because I understand the reality of working within organizational politics.
 B. I have gained employee commitment to an organizations’ priorities by clearly communicating my expectations and holding employees accountable to these expectations.
 C. I have guided a team or direct reports through a significant organizational change by garnering the team’s trust, by carefully listening to their concerns, then relaying their concerns to higher management, and ultimately, working with higher management to come to a mutually beneficial resolution.
 D. I have promoted interdependency by allowing my subordinates a certain amount of autonomy so that they may develop creative and innovative strategies or solutions within the team dynamic.
 E. I have been successful in leading a team to accomplish organizational priorities because I effectively communicate my vision to them and share my enthusiasm for it.
 F. None of these answers apply.
22. Which project management tasks have you independently performed?
 A. Established project management standards (e.g., templates, guidelines) used by an entire organization.
 B. Executed established projects set by the executive leadership.
 C. Conducted research to resolve problems that arose during projects.
 D. Prioritized assigned individual tasks.
 E. Reviewed employees' work for technical adequacy.
 F. Provided performance feedback to team members on assigned tasks.
 G. Provided management oversight (e.g., tracking deadlines, monitoring performance) to a team on a project with organization-wide impact.
 H. None of the above.
23. Select the tasks you have performed to manage team assignments.
 A. Set expectations (i.e., standards, deadlines) for team/individual performance
 B. Executed an established operating/project budget
 C. Established work schedules`
 D. Assigned tasks
 E. Reviewed completed work for technical adequacy
 F. Provided feedback to team members/employees on completed work
 G. Reported team progress to senior management
 H. Created analysis of the workload to assist with performance measurements
 I. None of the above
24. Select the Human Resources functions you have performed to provide Pay and Benefits support to customers (e.g., managers, administrative officers, selecting officials, applicants, employees, union officials).
 A. Pay and leave administration
 B. Workers' compensation
 C. Employee benefits administration
 D. Reasonable Accommodation
 E. Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) administration
 F. None of the above
25. If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "pass," "satisfactory," or better?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. I am a Federal employee but have not received a performance rating.
 D. Not applicable. I am not a Federal employee.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
26. Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected