Position Title
SUPERVISORY INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS SPECIALIST (REGIONAL OPERATIONS OFFICER)
Agency
Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency
Announcement Number
DCSA-26-12806210-P Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 29, 2025 to Thursday, October 9, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current U.S. Citizen applying for this vacancy?

 Yes
 No


3.
Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 Yes
 No


4.
Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. .

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 Yes
 No


5.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 Yes
 No


6.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


7.
Are you a Military Retiree within 180 days following your official retirement date? .
 Yes
 No


8.
Please select the best response to advise on your prior or current Civilian status. (If you indicate you are a current or former federal employee and if you do not provide a current SF-50, you will be automatically ineligible for consideration).
 I am a former federal civilian employee who has completed a 2 year probationary or trial period in a position as a civilian in the Federal competitive or excepted service.
 I am a former federal civilian employee who did NOT complete a 2 year probationary or trial period in a position as a civilian in the Federal competitive or excepted service.
 I am currently employed as a civilian in the Federal competitive or excepted service.
 I am neither a current or former federal civilian employee.


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


9.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


10.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


11.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


12.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


13.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes your level of specialized experience.

 I have the specialized experience sufficient to demonstrate that I have acquired all the competencies necessary to perform at a level equivalent in difficulty, responsibility, and complexity to the next lower grade (GS/GG-13) in the Federal service and are prepared to take on greater responsibility. Generally, this would include one year or more of such specialized experience. Specialized experience for this position includes: Directing and executing CI Functional Services (CIFS) against FIE efforts to acquire classified and sensitive information or defense technology from cleared industry. Providing advice on the development of new CI activities, personnel security, investigative methods and approaches, and revising existing DCSA operational guidance and directives. Reviewing and editing operational documents, significant case summaries, and information briefings for senior intelligence officials and for use in the intelligence and law enforcement communities. Consulting on CI operations to include techniques, procedures, and tradecraft, and counter-proliferation (CP) issues for the Agency involving CI integration at facilities.
 I do not meet any of the requirements listed above.


2.
Describe your experience planning, directing, guiding, overseeing, and administratively supervising the work efforts of CI Agents' collection activities, industry engagements, and liaison efforts with OGAs, and devising methodologies and objectives for accomplishing the mission.


3.
Describe your experience in planning, directing, and executing CI Functional Services within cleared industry directed against FIE efforts to acquire classified and sensitive information or defense technology.


4.
Describe your experience supporting, guiding, and overseeing collection operations in coordination with the collections manager, including ensuring the collection of intelligence across a spectrum of sources and methods, assisting in the management of the collection and reporting cycle, and providing intelligence support to CI Agents and your Agency's collection operations.


5.
Describe your experience in reviewing and editing operational documents, significant case summaries, and information briefings for senior Agency and senior DoD intelligence officials and for use in the intelligence and law enforcement communities.


6.
Describe your experience in conducting liaison with the Intelligence Community (IC), Law Enforcement (LE) supervisory special agents, Defense Intelligence Officers, National Intelligence Officers, senior intelligence analysts, senior collection managers, and senior reports officers to exchange information and coordinate national-level CI collection activities, especially in support of Intelligence Community requirements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙