Position Title
Medical Technician
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJT-25-12813647-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 10, 2025 to Tuesday, October 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Medical Technician, GS-0645-06 position with the Department of Defense, Defense Health Agency. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Medical Technician at the GS-06 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service which includes 1)Working in a laboratory reviewing and writing Standard Operating Procedures; 2) Laboratory experience reviewing College of American Pathology Checklists (CAP) in preparation for the Biennial CAP Inspection; 3) Review and generate daily/monthly Quality Control Reports (Levy Jennings Charts and Standard Deviation Ranges) and Quality Assurance Reports (Quality Metrics: STAT Turnaround Time, Workload Summary, Corrected and Exception Reports) for the Laboratory and 4) Participate in the verification/validation of new laboratory methodology and equipment.
 My experience is not reflected in any of the above statement.


2.
Certification from the American Society for Clinical Pathology (ASCP), American Medical Technologist (AMT) or other board or registry deemed comparable by Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs (OASD(HA)) or their designee as a Medical Laboratory Technician (MLT); Medical Technologist (MT); or Medical Lab Scientist (MLS) is required. Do you possess the required certificate? You MUST Upload a copy of the certification.
 Yes, I possess the required certification. (You MUST Upload a copy of the certification).
 No, I do not possess the required certification.


3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙