Position Title
SURFACE MAINTENANCE MECHANIC
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
ID-12773034-AR-25-3782 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, August 12, 2025 to Sunday, August 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

All current (nationwide) federal employees.  Are you a current federal employee?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1 or 2).

 

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Please answer the following question/(s):

Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Your resume must include start and end dates (MONTH AND YEAR) for each position listed to receive credit for specialized experience.

Examples:

From 2002 to 2004 I was a crew chief. (NO)

From Mar 2002 to Oct 2004 I served as the crew chief on a C-130 where I used testing equipment to troubleshoot malfunctions with systems. I repaired, maintained, serviced, inspected, and modified systems on the aircraft daily in the performance of my job. I use tech orders and manufacturers drawings and diagrams to determine proper maintenance procedures on assigned aircraft. (YES)

Does your resume reflect both month and year?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. GENERAL EXPERIENCE: Experience or training which demonstrates knowledge of equipment to be able to do routine jobs, simple preventative maintenance tasks, and can use common tools and equipment in the line of work.

SECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: Experience or training leading to a thorough knowledge of the mechanical makeup, operation, and working relationships of complex systems, assemblies, and parts for a variety of combat, tactical, commercial, special purpose vehicles, and equipment. Ability to diagnose, repair, overhaul, and modify a variety of combat, tactical, commercial, special purpose vehicles, and equipment. Knowledge of electrical, electronic, hydraulic, pneumatic, and other non-mechanical systems that have a functional relationship and effect on the operation of mechanical systems. Knowledge of hydraulic lifting, loading, turning, and positioning systems and their mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic, electrical, and electronic controls. Basic knowledge of electronics, sufficient to identify and replace defective components, such as sensors, diodes, and circuit boards. Ability to repair or overhaul major components such as diesel, multi-fuel or gasoline engines, turbine engines, automatic and manual transmissions, drive line assemblies, electrical and electronic systems and accessories, fuel injection systems, and emission control systems.

To ensure full credit is given for the qualification requirements you will need to be specific with your experience and write it in terms that the Human Resource Specialist can easily understand (please refrain from using acronyms).  Include both military and civilian experience (credit is applied for both your military and civilian jobs, except for overlapping periods).  Please include any MOS/AFSC that you hold/held and the dates they were obtained.

Do you meet these requirements and does your resume reflect the specialized experience listed above?

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. To be eligible for this position, you must currently hold a rank within the pay grades of E-1 through E-6.

Do you currently hold a rank within the pay grades provided?

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected