Position Title
Human Resources Specialist (Human Resources Development)
Agency
U.S. Secret Service
Announcement Number
HRR-KR-12801733-25-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 19, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND meet one (1) of the following?
Retired from active military service with a disability rating of 30% or more; or
Rated by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) or have a disability determination from a branch of the Armed Forces at any time, showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more.
To verify eligibility, you must submit:
DD-214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (Member Copy 4 or equivalent); AND
Official document from the Department of Veterans Affairs or from a branch of the Armed Forces certifying overall compensable service-connected disability rating of at least 30% or more (NOTE: overall percentage must be clearly shown);
 SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference (Page 1 - block #1-4; 6)
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans


 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training?

To verify eligibility, you must submit:
Verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage certificate or other legal documentation verifying marriage); and
Verification of the spouse's active-duty status (i.e., spouse's Permanent Change of Station (PCS) or Active Duty military orders, or official documentation from the Armed Forces branch that verifies spouse's active status). Fiscal Year (FY) 2023 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) extends the temporary provision in which spouses are not required to relocate with active-duty service members on PCS orders. The sunset date of this provision is December 31, 2028.
-OR-

Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100%, or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100% from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)?

To verify eligibility, you must submit:
Verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage certificate or other legal documentation verifying marriage); and
Verification of the spouse's military service (i.e., DD-214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (Member Copy 4 or equivalent); and
Verification of the service member's 100% disability (i.e., Official document from the Department of Veterans Affairs or from a branch of the Armed Forces certifying the overall compensable service-connected disability rating of 100%) NOTE: The overall percentage must be clearly shown; and
SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference (Page 1 - block #1-4; 7; 7a and Page 2 - Answer questions 1-7)
-OR-

Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces who was killed while in active-duty status?

To verify eligibility, you must submit:
Verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage certificate or other legal documentation verifying marriage); and
Verification of the member's death while on active duty (i.e., DD-1300, Report of Casualty or equivalent); and
SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference (Page 1 - block #1-4; 8; 8a/8b)
NOTE: A spouse is not eligible if not married to the veteran at the time of death or have since remarried.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position and meet the ALL of the following? 
Located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; and
Applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice.
SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), that reflects all of the following:
Position, grade level (GS-15 or below), and duty location; and
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is "1" or "2" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34), or excepted service without time limit (Position Occupied is "2" in block 34) who is covered by a law providing both noncompetitive appointment eligibility to, and selection priority for, competitive service positions.
Any documentation from agency that shows current promotion potential; and
Latest performance appraisal including rating.
For more information, review Career Transition (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current Federal civilian employee in a permanent competitive service position who has never held the highest grade level (or equivalent) for the position is being announced?

To verify eligibility as a current Federal civilian employee, you must submit your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following (you may need to submit more than one SF-50 to comply):
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is 1 or 2 in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34); and
The highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent SF-50) and
Time-in-grade eligibility.
Please note: Examples of appropriate Notification of Personnel Actions, SF-50, include promotions, with-in grade/range increases. While a General Adjustment and/or Award SF-50 may be your most recent SF-50 it typically DOES NOT show proof of Time in Grade. Thus, you may need to submit more than one SF-50 as proof of Time in Grade.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a current Federal civilian employee in a permanent competitive service position who currently holds or has previously held the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential (or equivalent) for the position being announced?

To verify eligibility as a current Federal civilian employee, you must submit your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following (you may need to submit more than one SF-50 to comply):
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is 1 or 2 in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34); and
Reflects the highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent SF-50)
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a current or former Federal civilian employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm the following:  
Located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; and
Applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which will be or were separated; and
Applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which will be or were separated; and
Last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify eligibility, you must submit:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, notice of (proposed) removal for declining a directed geographic relocation outside the local commuting area (e.g., a directed reassignment or a change in duty station), notice of compensable work-related injury or illness termination and agency certification of inability to place, or notice of disability annuity termination; AND
SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), that reflects all of the following:
Position, grade level (GS-15 or below), and duty location; and
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is "1" or "2" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34), or excepted service without time limit (Position Occupied is "2" in block 34) who is covered by a law providing both noncompetitive appointment eligibility to, and selection priority for, competitive service positions.
Any documentation from agency that shows current promotion potential; AND
Latest performance appraisal including rating.
For more information, review Career Transition (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Are you a current or former Federal civilian employee on a time-limited appointment in the competitive service of a Land Management agency? If yes, confirm the following:

As a current/former employee of a Land Management Agency you MUST work or have worked for one the following:
The Department of Agriculture's Forest Service; or
The Department of Interior's Bureau of Land Management, National Park Service, Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Reclamation.
AND
Are/were on a temporary or term appointment (time-limited) in the competitive service; and
Worked for a land management agency under one (1) or more time-limited appointments for a period or periods totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two (2) or more years; and
Received acceptable performance ratings during each period of service.
Note:  Former land management employees most recent separation must be for reasons other than misconduct or performance AND must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation.

To verify eligibility, you must submit:
ALL Appointment AND Resignation/Termination, SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), totaling more than 24 months that reflects all the following:
Temporary or Term appointment (Tenure Code is "0" or "3" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34)
Performance appraisal showing the official rating of record and signed by a supervisor, for each qualifying period of temporary or term appointment; or, if one is unavailable, provide a statement of performance for each period of service. The statement must specify the dates for each employment period and level of performance (dates should match the dates on the SF-50s).
For more information review Land management, Land Management Eligible, and Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you a current Federal employee in the excepted service and/or in other merit systems of a Federal Agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management (OPM)?  If yes, confirm the following:
Currently serving under an appointment that is not time-limited or have been involuntarily separated from such appointment without personal cause within the preceding year; and
Current serving in or have been involuntarily separated from a position covered by an interchange agreement; and 
Served continuously for at least one (1) year under the interchange agreement.
For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems.

-OR-

Are you a current Federal employee of a Federal Agency covered under other miscellaneous appointing authorities not regulated by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Other Miscellaneous Authorities include the following?
Postal Career Service Employees
Postal Rate Commission Employees
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employees
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employees
For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.

To verify eligibility, you must submit your most recent, Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, and the highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form(s) reflecting eligibility under the OPM Interchange Agreement or Other Miscellaneous Authorities.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you a FORMER competitive-service employee of the Federal Government OR veterans' preference eligible, including those with derived preference, who PREVIOUSLY HELD a career or career-conditional (non-time-limited) appointment?  

To verify eligibility, you must submit your most recent separation Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following:
A career appointment (Tenure Code is 1 in block 24) in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34); or
A career-conditional appointment (Tenure Code is 2 in block 24) in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34)*; and
Reflects the highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent separation SF-50)
If claiming veterans' preference with eligibility, you must submit the following:
DD-214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (Member Copy 4 or equivalent) showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active-duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service and/or
Official document from the Department of Veterans Affairs or from a branch of the Armed Forces certifying overall compensable service-connected disability rating of at least 30% or more (NOTE: overall percentage must be clearly shown); and
SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference 
*If you do not have veterans' preference or did not acquire career tenure, you are only eligible to be reinstated within 3 years after the date of your separation.

For more information review: Reinstatement Eligibility
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you a person with an intellectual disability, a severe physical disability or a psychiatric disability that qualifies for a Schedule A hiring authority?

To verify eligibility, you must submit a disability letter on official stationery/letterhead with an official signature. The letter should clearly state full name and that a person with a disability and are eligible for appointment under Schedule A hiring authority as outlined in 5 CFR Section 213.3102(u). Such documentation must be from one of the below sources:
A licensed medical professional (e.g., a physician or other medical professional duly certified by a State, the District of Columbia, or a U.S. territory, to practice medicine); or
A licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist (State or private); or
Any Federal agency, State agency, or an agency of the District of Columbia or a U.S. territory that issues or provides disability benefits.
A sample letter (PDF file) can be found on the OPM website.

For more information, review Individuals with Disabilities resources
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Are you a Veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and meet one (1) of the following?
Entitled to veterans' preference, including those with derived preference; or
A veteran separated or are expected to be separated within the next 120 days, from the armed forces after three (3) or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions. Veterans who were released shortly before completing a 3-year tour are considered eligible.
To verify eligibility, you must submit:
DD-214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (Member Copy 4 or equivalent) showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active-duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service; or
Future Military Retirees/Separatees submit a certification letter from the Armed Forces that you will be discharged or released from active duty within 120 days from the date on the certification*.
Disabled Veterans submit certification letter from the Armed Forces that you will be discharged or released from active duty within 120 days from the date on the certification* AND an official document from the Department of Veterans Affairs or from a branch of the Armed Forces certifying overall compensable service-connected disability rating AND/OR SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference (SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C).
*This certification letter must indicate dates of active service, rank/grade, expected character of service (i.e., honorable or general) and type of separation (i.e., separation or retirement). Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

"Active service" defined in title 37, United States Code, means active duty in the uniformed services and includes full-time training duty, annual training duty, full-time National Guard duty, and attendance, while in the active service, at a school designated as a service school by law or by the Secretary of the military department concerned.

For more information, review Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Are you a veteran who separated, or are expected to be separated within the next 120 days, from active duty under honorable conditions and meet one (1) of the following?
a disabled veteran; or
served on active duty in the Armed Forces during a war, or in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge has been authorized; or
served on active duty in the Armed Forces and participated in a United States military operation for which an Armed Forces Service Medal was awarded; or
recently separated (within the past 3 years)
To verify eligibility, you must submit:
A DD-214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (Member Copy 4 or equivalent) showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active-duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service; or
Future Military Retirees/Separatees submit a certification letter from the Armed Forces that you will be discharged or released from active duty within 120 days from the date on the certification*.
Disabled Veterans submit certification letter from the Armed Forces that you will be discharged or released from active duty within 120 days from the date on the certification* AND an official document from the Department of Veterans Affairs or from a branch of the Armed Forces certifying overall compensable service-connected disability rating AND SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference 
*This certification letter must indicate dates of active service, rank/grade, expected character of service (i.e., honorable or general) and type of separation (i.e., separation or retirement). Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

"Active service" defined in title 37, United States Code, means active duty in the uniformed services and includes full-time training duty, annual training duty, full-time National Guard duty, and attendance, while in the active service, at a school designated as a service school by law or by the Secretary of the military department concerned.

For more information, review Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
9
11
Conditions of Employment
All applicants must complete the following section. This section will be used to determine your ability and willingness to accept certain conditions of employment or meet certain requirements of the position. Please respond 'Yes' or 'No' to the following statements. Failure to respond to this section will result in an ineligible rating.
1. In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF-50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. If I receive a conditional offer of employment, I am willing to undergo a pre-employment drug screening.
 A. Yes
 B. No
All applicants must undergo a comprehensive background investigation. The background investigation focuses on your honesty, reliability, police record, financial record, use of alcohol and drugs, mental health, and employment record. The background investigation includes interviews with your past and present employers, neighbors, teachers, and references, as well as checks of law enforcement, credit, educational, medical, and other records.
3. Recruiter ID Number: If you have one, please enter your recruiter's ID number. (Your recruiter would have supplied it to you). If you do not have one, please enter 0 (zero). (limit 7 characters)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Human Resources Specialist (Human Resources Development) position with the United States Secret Service. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
1. Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Human Resources Specialist (Human Resources Development) at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal Service which includes utilizing software to organize, analyze, and present human resources data; researching policies, procedures, or other operations that require evaluation; and analyzing data to present human resource recommendations in areas such as employee development, assessment, and promotion.
 B. I have successfully completed a master’s or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL. B or J.D. in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position.
 C. I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least one year of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required two years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year (total graduate semester hours minus 18) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.) (Note: you must attach a copy of your transcripts. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.)
 D. I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: you must attach a copy of your transcripts. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.)
 E. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
2. Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Human Resources Specialist (Human Resources Development) at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal Service which includes utilizing software to organize, analyze, and present human resources data; researching policies, procedures, or other operations that require evaluation; analyzing data to present human resource recommendations in areas such as employee development, assessment, and promotion; and assisting with implementing surveys and assessments of workforce development and promotion programs.
 B. I have successfully completed I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M. in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position. (Note: you must attach a copy of your transcripts. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.)
 C. I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least two years of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required three years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the second year (total graduate semester hours minus 36) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.) (Note: you must attach a copy of your transcripts. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.)
 D. I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: you must attach a copy of your transcripts. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.)
 E. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements. MCSS
3. From the list below select the statement that reflects your level of strategic planning experience.
 A. I have experience demonstrating the ability to use strategic planning concepts and methods to assist management with short-term and long-term decisions. I typically work independently to complete assignments and provide my findings and recommendations and/or solutions to others for incorporation into broader work products.
 B. I have experience demonstrating the ability to use strategic planning concepts and methods to assist management with short-term and long-term decisions. I typically work as part of a team, completing independent and joint assignments which are then incorporated into broader work products.
 C. I have experience serving as a Team/Project Lead with responsibility for facilitating, coordinating, and providing direction to others to complete strategic planning projects.
 D. I have experience providing supervision and oversight of a staff responsible for identifying, developing, and implementing strategic planning tools which are then completed on behalf of an internal or external organization.
 E. None of the above.
4. From the list below select the statements that describe your experience developing and managing technical programs and/or projects by performing the following tasks.
 A. Drafting and setting program priorities
 B. Determining program resource requirements
 C. Tracing and managing program budgets
 D. Setting short and long range program goals
 E. Coordinating program activities with program staff
 F. Monitoring program progress
 G. Evaluating program outcomes
 H. None of the above
5. From the list below select the statement that best reflects your level of experience performing program evaluations and/or organizational assessments?
 A. I have formal training or education in analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations.
 B. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use different qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze programs and/or management processes. I work with others to develop recommendations or conclusions about specific program and/or management situations and issues.
 C. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a variety of analytical methods to assess and evaluate programs and/or management practices. I typically work independently to complete this analysis and provide recommendations and/or solutions addressing programmatic and management concerns.
 D. I have work experience conducting complex analysis of high visibility programs and/or management practices. I apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others.
 E. None of the above
6. From the list below select the statement that best describes your experience evaluating the effectiveness and adequacy of programs, operations, work methods, and techniques in compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
 A. I have conducted assessments, evaluations, analyses, or special studies to assess the effectiveness and adequacy of programs, process, operations, or activities to ensure they are in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. I have used the results of the analyses to develop recommendations to improve program areas and/or modify program policies or operations to respond to emerging issues and problems at the department or agency level.
 B. I have conducted a variety of evaluations, analyses, or special studies to identify changes in program requirements or mission objectives, and/or identify potential changes to functions that cross cut major programs or multiple organizations.
 C. I have conducted a variety of evaluations, analyses or special studies of programs and developed recommendations for procedural and/or organizational changes needed to implement significant changes in program performance.
 D. None of the above
7. From the list below select the statement that demonstrates the extent of your experience in conducting research in support of the human resources assessment and development function.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others who were responsible for designing and conducting research in support of the human resources assessment and development function.
 C. I have been responsible for segments of one or more large research projects in support of the human resources assessment and development function.
 D. I have led one or more research projects in support of the human resources assessment and development function.
 E. I have directed a program of research in support of the human resources assessment and development function.
8. From the list below select the statement that demonstrates the extent of your experience in developing surveys for human resources assessment initiatives.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others with the development of surveys for human resources assessment initiatives (for example, compiling or summarizing source material, writing individual survey items).
 C. I have independently developed surveys for human resources assessment initiatives.
9. From the list below select the statement that best describes your experience conducting HR-related research studies.
 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have conducted HR related research studies of limited scope and complexity that have had implications for my immediate work team; and/or I have assisted others with HR related research studies of moderate complexity that have had implications for others outside of my work team.
 D. I have independently conducted complex HR related research studies that have had a significant implication to the overall effectiveness of the organization; to include defining the research problem, planning, executing, analyzing, interpreting, and reporting the results.
10. Indicate the extent of your experience in conducting research in support of the human resources management function.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others who were responsible for designing and conducting research in support of the human resources management function.
 C. I have been responsible for segments of one or larger research projects in support of the human resources management function.
 D. I have led one or more research projects in support of the human resources management function.
 E. I have directed a program of research in support of the human resources management function.
11. From the list below select the statements that describe how you have planned and organized work.
 A. I have followed the schedule, goals, and guidelines prepared by my supervisor.
 B. I have documented project requirements, coordinated work, resources, and personnel when planning was prepared by a program manager.
 C. I have set project requirements and priorities, developed strategies to achieve goals, and coordinated work requirements, resources, and personnel to ensure project goals were met.
 D. None of the above.
12. From the list below select the statement(s) that describe your responsibility for keeping management apprised of emerging events, developments, or requirements and their impact on organizational programs. In that context, which of the following have you performed?
 A. I have identified technical problem areas
 B. I have established root causes
 C. I have recommended solutions to problems
 D. I have determined the impact of programs and prioritizing program areas to operate within budget constraints
 E. I have coordinated solutions with other program managers or individuals as necessary
 F. I have implemented recommendations
 G. None of the above
13. From the list below select the program/project management functions you have performed on a regular basis.
 A. Worked individually and without a significant amount of technical or administrative supervision to complete a project and/or accomplish a program goal
 B. Participated as a member of a team led by others to complete a project and/or accomplish a program goal
 C. Led a team to complete a project and/or accomplish a program goal
 D. Negotiated resolutions to conflicts or areas of disagreement among internal and/or external parties involved in a project and/or a program
 E. Coordinated and collaborated with internal and/or external parties involved in a project and/or a program
 F. Developed and implemented long-term project plans.
 G. Proposed and initiated a new process, project, or a program which your organization implemented
 H. Developed a coalition or a collaborative group, which included internal and external stakeholders, and successfully completed a project and/or accomplished a program goal
 I. None of the above
14. From the list below select the statement(s) that best describes your experience analyzing information from multiple sources to make recommendations for management strategies.
 A. Interpreting human resources regulations and policies in order to make recommendations to management about updating or creating new human resources programs.
 B. Analyzing administrative programs that have multiple interconnected functions, challenges, and priorities to make recommendations to management regarding human resources management.
 C. Making inferences about proposed legislation and their impact on human resources functions for an organization.
 D. Developing alternative solutions to resolve human resources management problems, particularly where there are shifting or conflicting needs in an organization.
 E. Developing human resources policies that support legal compliance and an organization's mission.
 F. None of the above
15. From the list below select the statement(s) that best reflects your experience with written communication at work.
 A. I have composed informal e-mail messages to customers, supervisors, and peers.
 B. I have used document templates (such as e-mail stationary or form letters) to develop formal communication (e-mails, memos. or letters) to provide information to customers, supervisors, and peers on routine matters.
 C. I have composed formal communication (e-mails, memos, or letters) to relay technical information to customers, supervisors, and peers on non-routine matters. Documents were approved by someone else before sending.
 D. I have independently composed and signed formal communication (e-mails, memos or letters) to relay technical information to customers, supervisors, and peers on non-routine matters.
 E. None of the above.
16. From the list below select the statement that best describes your experience providing formal training sessions and/or presentations for senior executives on human capital topics.
 A. I have no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have limited experience in performing this task. I have had exposure to this task but would require additional guidance, instruction or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 C. I have experience performing this task across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 D. I have performed this task independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this task. I seek guidance in carrying out this task only in unusually complex situations.
 E. I am considered an expert in carrying out this task. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this task on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this task in unusually complex situations.
17. Please select the response that best describes your experience with oral communications.
 A. I have presented or defended recommendations on sensitive or complex human resources issues to senior management. My experience includes presenting the office’s policies and/or procedures and leading discussions or participating in work groups; serving on panels, committees, or task forces on human resources issues.
 B. I have conducted informal briefings and presentations to staff within the organization. My experience includes conferring with others to resolve work-related problems; providing advice and assistance to those seeking information; and acquiring or clarifying facts/information as needed to complete assignments.
 C. I have represented management as the authoritative spokesperson for the purpose of explaining the organization’s human resources procedures/policies. My experience includes conducting briefings or trainings to senior officials and defending or negotiating changes or recommendations.
 D. None of the above.
18. From the list below, select the audiences to whom you have given oral presentations.
 A. I have questioned, interviewed, or conferred with others to obtain or verify information; or participated in debate or speech programs; or explained non-technical procedures to customers.
 B. I have notified supervisors, managers, or offices orally of decisions, problems, or further actions needed; or I have explained the organization's programs or services to others.3. Senior Officials within my organization
 C. I have given presentations at departmental/organizational briefings and meetings, and acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations.
 D. I have given presentations at professional meetings and conferences external to my agency. I have discussed and explained technical material that was often controversial or sensitive. I have adapted my explanations to the level of the target audience.
 E. None of the above
19. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.

 A. Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected