Position Title
Immigration Services Officer
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12806560-HHW-IMP-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 29, 2025 to Wednesday, October 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current USCIS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 Yes
 No


2.
The Reemployment Priority List (RPL) is the mechanism DHS uses to give reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees separated by reduction-in-force (RIF), or fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a former USCIS employee?  If so, have you met all of the following criteria?
Registered for the RPL program, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupied a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current/most recent performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent, and
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606
For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, visit 5 CFR 330 Subpart B.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
My SF-50 showing Separation - RIF. If that is not available yet, then official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who is in a permanent position that is in the competitive service (see block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type)?

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of our SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who has held, or currently holds, a permanent position in the competitive service (see block #34 of your SF-50) with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?  

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
 Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11
12


2.
I acknowledge the following conditions if I choose to submit my resume through the USAJOBS Resume Builder:
I understand that resumes submitted through USAJOBS Resume Builder are converted to a PDF format when they are transmitted to USA Staffing from the USAJOBS applicant interface and additional spaces/page gaps are added to resumes during the Resume Builder conversion process;
Based on the above conditions, I understand that USCIS strongly encourages me to save my resume to a PDF document and upload the PDF document instead of submitting my resume created through Resume Builder;
I understand that USCIS' human resources will only review the first 2 pages of my resume to determine eligibility/qualifications for this position;
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I have met this requirement for consideration.

(Note: Additional guidance regarding this requirement is available within the How to Submit Your Resume section of the USCIS Resume Requirement FAQs.)
 Yes
 No


3.
There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 Yes
 No
 The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.


4.
Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) from the Federal Government within the last 5 years?
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
25.
Select the tasks you have performed related to conducting security checks for immigration benefit applications.
 A. I used government systems to initiate security checks in accordance with all applicable laws and policies.
 B. I ensured that all records and property were maintained and destroyed in accordance with security requirements.
 C. I identified files with national security threats and public safety issues and prioritized them for security checks.
 D. I conducted file searches for aliases.
 E. I conducted file searches for criminal behavior.
 F. I conducted file searches for dates of birth.
 G. None of the above.


26.
Select the activities you have performed to process application/petition packets.
 A. Reviewed applications/petitions for completeness.
 B. Verified accuracy of entered data
 C. Updated databases with new/revised information.
 D. Created queries to facilitate data review
 E. Conducted database searches to identify potential fraud
 F. Identified inconsistencies in case file contents
 G. Prepared follow up activities for packets that were identified as incomplete
 H. None of the above


27.
Which choice best describes your highest level of experience adjudicating immigration benefits?
 I have no experience, training, or education in adjudicating immigration benefits.
 I completed education and/or training related to adjudicating immigration benefits but do not yet have professional experience.
 I provided data to immigration services officers who were responsible for adjudication.
 I reviewed immigration benefits applications for completion and accuracy.
 I adjudicated immigration benefits applications.


28.
Select the tasks you have performed using computer systems to verify an individual's current identity and immigration status.
 A. Conducted file searches for aliases
 B. Conducted file searches for dates of birth
 C. Conducted file searches for adjudicated/pending applications
 D. Searched system for aliases and date of birth variations
 E. Searched system for previous immigration applications
 F. None of the above


29.
Select the activities you have performed to ensure the integrity of case files.
 A. I maintained a file organization processes to ensure that files were accounted for on a daily basis.
 B. I managed a tracking database containing a process for checking-out and checking-in files.
 C. I identified missing files through conducting inventory and reconstructed the file to ensure all contents were restored.
 D. I located missing files and put them back where they belonged.
 E. I created temporary folders while organizing or consolidating files.
 F. None of the above.


30.
Select the resources you have used to complete research on an individual's eligibility for immigration benefits.
 A. Immigration and Nationality Act
 B. Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American Relief Act (NACARA)
 C. Violence Against Women Act (VAWA
 D. Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA)
 E. Convention Against Torture
 F. Case Precedents
 G. Country Conditions
 H. International Human Rights Laws and Treaties
 I. Documentary Evidence
 J. Law enforcement data bases and records
 K. Agency's policy and procedures manual
 L. None of the above


31.
Which response best describes your highest level of experience making legal decisions based on a preponderance of evidence received during data collection for applicants seeking immigration benefits?
 I provided data to others who were responsible for making legal decisions.
 I independently researched, interpreted and analyzed sources in order to make legal decisions.
 I independently reviewed and approved legal decisions made by others to ensure agency-/ organizational-wide pertinent sections of the law and regulations were supported.
 None of the above.


32.
Which actions have you taken to perform security checks using government systems?
 A. Conducted file searches for aliases
 B. Conducted file searches for dates of birth
 C. Conducted file searches for criminal behavior
 D. Conducted file searches for fraud or suspected fraud
 E. Conducted file searches for misrepresentation of identity
 F. Reported submissions of fraudulent or altered documents
 G. Identified files with national security threats and public safety issues
 H. Ensured records and property were maintained and destroyed in accordance with security requirements.
 I. None of the above.


33.
Which activities have you performed to assess the accuracy of case file contents?
 A. Reviewed applications/petitions for completeness
 B. Verified accuracy of entered data
 C. Updated databases with new/revised information
 D. Created queries to facilitate data review
 E. Conducted database searches to identify potential fraud
 F. Identified inconsistencies in case file contents
 G. Prepared follow up activities for packets that were identified as incomplete
 H. None of the above


34.
Select the activities you have performed related to ensuring the accuracy of data related to immigration fraud.
 A. Reviewed applications/petitions for completeness.
 B. Verified accuracy of entered data
 C. Updated database with new or revised information.
 D. Created queries to facilitate data review.
 E. Conducted database searches to identify potential issues (i.e., fraud).
 F. None of the above.


35.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience processing immigration benefits?
 I have no experience, training, or education related to processing immigration benefits.
 I completed education and/or training related to processing immigration benefits, but do not have professional experience
 I reviewed immigration benefit applications for completeness.
 I searched/updated immigration related databases to review immigration applications.
 I interviewed applicants seeking immigration benefits.
 I adjudicated and wrote final determinations on applicants seeking immigration benefits.
 I represented immigration benefit applicants in legal proceedings.
 I wrote legal briefs or other written memoranda that advocated for sensitive and complex hearing or appeal cases involving immigration benefit eligibility.
 I wrote legal briefs in support of appeals from denial of immigration benefits.


36.
Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience analyzing current procedures related to immigration benefits.
 I have no experience, training, or education related to analyzing procedures for immigration benefits.
 I completed education and/or training related to analyzing procedures for immigration benefits, but do not have professional experience.
 I analyzed immigration benefit procedures to determine where inefficiencies exist.
 I analyzed immigration benefit procedures and made recommendations to management on ways to improve practices.
 I analyzed immigration benefit procedures and independently implemented changes that improved efficiency.


37.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience conducting a file review for decisions made on immigration benefit applications to ensure the final decision is in compliance with immigration laws, regulations and/or policies?
 I have no experience, training, or education related to reviewing immigration benefit decisions.
 I completed education and/or training on reviewing immigration benefit decisions, but do not have professional experience.
 I independently reviewed immigration benefit applications to ensure the adjudication decision complied with immigration laws, regulations and/or policies.
 I assisted applicants in appealing the final decision for immigration benefits sought based on the grounds of the decision not being compliant with immigration laws, regulations and/or policies.
 I counseled my superiors on cases where the final decision for immigration benefits was not in compliance with immigration laws, regulations and/or policies and recommended solutions to rectify the error.


38.
Which activities have you performed pertaining to the prevention of immigration fraud?
 A. Analyzed anti-fraud and law enforcement check policies, procedures, and systems.
 C. Generated reports and documented trends in immigration fraud.
 D. Accessed data systems to extract information pertinent to background check protocols.
 E. Participated in inter-agency and/or intra-agency task forces to enhance U.S. national security and the integrity of the legal immigration system.
 F. Detected red-flags pertaining to immigration fraud while reviewing case files.
 G. None of the above.
 B. Assisted Immigration officers and Specialists in data collection.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙