Position Title
Nursing Assistant - Grand Island Community Living Center
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSY-12741553-25-EB Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, June 5, 2025 to Wednesday, August 27, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
2. Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Name and Contact Information
Job title
Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2021)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week if part-time)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held.
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

Do you confirm that the above information is clearly stated for each work entry you are claiming experience for, and that each entry is full time unless otherwise annotated with part-time hours?
 A. Yes
 B. No
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
3. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Your responses to the questions below will be used to determine your eligibility for the position being announced. Please select the appropriate answer to the following questions based on your education and experience. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING. YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSES YOU SELECT.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. English Language Requirement. In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Physical Requirements. You will be asked to participate in a pre-employment evaluation or examination as part of the pre-employment process for this position. Questions about physical demands or environmental factors may be addressed at the time of evaluation or examination. Are you willing to participate in a pre-employment physical evaluation or examination?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Drug Testing. Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4.

Basic Requirement. To be at least minimally qualified for the nursing assistant occupation in VA, applicants must have completed one of the following:
 

General Experience: Six months general experience. Experience must demonstrate the ability to acquire the knowledge and skills to perform the work of a Nursing Assistant.
Education: One year of education above high school with courses related to the nursing assistant occupation.
Training: Completion of an intensive, specialized, occupation-related course of study of less than one year as a Nursing Assistant (e.g., Nurse Aid Certification course) may also meet the experience requirements for GS-3.

Note: If basing all or part of your qualifications on education or training, copy of college transcripts showing completion of one year of education above high school related to the nursing assistant occupation, or documentation showing completion of an intensive, specialized, occupation-related course of study of less than one year as a Nursing Assistant (e.g., Nurse Aid Certificate) is required to verify you meet the basic education/training requirement. While not required at the time of application, documentation may be required to receive further consideration.

Please select the one response below that best describes how you meet the basic general experience/education/training requirement for the nursing assistant occupation.
 A. I have six months of general experience which demonstrates the ability to acquire the Knowledge and skills to perform the work of a Nursing Assistant.
 B. I have completed at least one year of education above high school with courses related to the nursing assistant occupation.
 C. I have completed an intensive, specialized, occupation-related course of study of less than one year as a Nursing Assistant (e.g., Nurse Aid Certification course).
 D. I am currently enrolled in a post high school technical school, junior college, college or university completing course work related to the nursing assistant occupation.
 E. I am currently enrolled in an intensive, specialized, occupation-related course of study of less than one year as a Nursing Assistant (e.g., Nurse Aid Certification course).
 F. None of these responses reflect my current education/training; therefore, I do not meet the basic qualification requirements for this occupation.
GRADE REQUIREMENTS: The full performance level of this vacancy is GS-5. The actual grade at which an applicant may be selected for this vacancy is GS-3 through GS-5. To qualify at the GS-3 level, you need only meet the basic requirements listed above. GS-3 Nursing Assistants are considered to be at entry level and are closely supervised. To qualify at the GS-4 and -5 levels, additional criteria must be met. To receive full consideration at the GS-4 and -5 levels, your application must clearly support your responses to the self-assessment questions below. Your experience will be verified in an employment reference, or through independent means.
5.

GS-4. Individuals assigned as GS-4 Nursing Assistants are considered to be at the intermediate or developmental level and are closely supervised. Applicants may qualify at the GS-4 level based on either experience or education as described below:

Experience. One year of specialized experience as a Nursing Assistant or experience in another medical field (licensed practical nurse, health technician, hospital corpsman, etc.), performing technical and nursing skills requiring knowledge of the human physical and emotional states, therapeutic communication, and technical skills required for basic and intermediate treatments.
OR
Education. Successful completion of at least 2 years above high school in an accredited institution with courses related to nursing care, health care or in a field of study appropriate to the specialization of the position, such as education in a program for psychology, psychiatric, or operating room technicians; AND demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities as defined below:

Ability to provide a range of patient/resident care and contribute to the completion of the nurse care plan and recovery of patients/residents.
Ability to observe patients/residents' physical or emotional status and refer deviations and/or problems to supervisor in a timely manner.
Ability to properly use equipment, materials, and supplies in simple diagnostic and treatment procedures such as bladder scan, continuous passive motion device, blood glucose monitoring machine, and specimen collection, etc.
Ability to communicate effectively with patients/residents, their families and other health professionals.


Please select the one response below that best describes how you meet the experience or education requirements for the GS-4 level.

 A. I have one year of specialized experience as a Nursing Assistant or experience in another medical field (licensed practical nurse, health technician, hospital corpsman, etc.), performing technical and nursing skills requiring knowledge of the human physical and emotional states, therapeutic communication, and technical skills required for basic and intermediate treatments.
 B. I have completed at least 2 years above high school in an accredited institution with courses related to nursing care, health care or in a field of study appropriate to the specialization of the position, such as education in a program for psychology, psychiatric, or operating room technicians; and my application demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities described above.
 C. Neither of these responses reflects my current experience/education level; therefore, I am not qualified at the GS-4 level.
6. GS-5. This is the full performance level for Nursing Assistants in VA. Nursing Assistants at this level typically are assigned patients/residents with more complex nursing needs and assume more of a peer education/mentorship role. Candidates can qualify at the GS-5 level based on either experience or education.

Experience. One year of progressively responsible assignments and experience equivalent to the GS-4 level Nursing Assistant which demonstrates knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) that are directly related to the Nursing Assistant assignment being filled. In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the professional KSAs below.
OR
Education. Successful completion of a 4-year course of study above high school leading to a bachelor's degree that included 24 semester hours of courses related to health care or possession of a bachelor's degree. In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the professional KSAs below.

Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities:
Ability to assist in the full range of nursing care to patients/residents with physical and/or behavioral problems in a hospital, long term care, or outpatient setting under the direction of a Registered Nurse and/or Licensed Vocational Nurse/Licensed Practical Nurse.
Ability to communicate orally with patients/residents, families, interdisciplinary team, and other personnel. This includes serving as a preceptor to new Nursing Assistants by assisting with coordination of their orientation and overseeing/assessing their practical experience while in a clinical setting.
Ability to recognize and react to emergent patient/resident care situations and intervene while waiting for assistance. For example, recognizing need for basic life support, controlling bleeding, and assisting with behavior crisis, etc.

Please select the one response below that best describes how you meet the requirements for the GS-5 level.
 A. I have one year of progressively responsible assignments and experience as a Nursing Assistant equivalent to the GS-4 level Nursing Assistant. In addition, I have demonstrated knowledge, skills, and abilities required at the GS-5 level as described above.
 B. I have completed a 4-year course of study above high school leading to a bachelor's degree that included 24 semester hours of courses related to health care or possession of a bachelor's degree. In addition, I have demonstrated knowledge, skills, and abilities required at the GS-5 level as described above.
 C. Neither of these responses describe my current experience/education level; therefore, I am not qualified at the GS-5 level.
RESUME RECOMMENDATION - Although we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

Application Reminders:
Transcript Reminder-
If basing all or part of your qualifications on education or training, a copy of your college transcripts showing completion of one year of education above high school related to the nursing assistant occupation or documentation showing completion of an intensive, specialized, occupation-related course of study of less than one year as a Nursing Assistant is required to verify you meet the basic qualification requirements.
If basing your qualifications on education at the GS-4 or-5 levels, you must submit a copy of all relevant transcripts with your application. You do not need to submit an official copy; however, your submitted transcript must include your name, name of school, name of program, total credits completed, date degree/certificate conferred. Your transcript will be reviewed for relevant coursework; therefore, the copy you submit must be legible.
KSA Reminder - Although submission of KSAs is not required at the time of application, failure to provide a supplemental document with written responses to the required KSAs may result in disqualification if your resume does not provide sufficient detail of your experience.
SF-50 (Notice of Personnel Action) Reminder: If applying as an internal or status candidate with current or former Federal Service, you must provide a copy of your most recent non-award SF-50, "Notification of Personnel Action", showing the highest grade held, dated within the last year.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected