Position Title
Interdisciplinary (Computational Quantitative Analyst)
Agency
Office of Management and Budget
Announcement Number
EOP-OMB-12798059-25-TH-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 19, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (non-award).

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a Federal agency other than the Executive Office of the President? If yes, confirm you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (non-award).

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
9
11
2. Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0110 - Economist
 B. 1510 - Actuarial Science
 C. 1520 - Mathematics
 D. 1560 - Data Science Series
Additional Questions
1. In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form (SF) 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 A. Yes, I have held one or more of these appointment types in the past five years.
 B. No, I have not held any of these appointment types in the past five years.
 C. I am unsure if I have held any of these appointment types in the past five years.
2. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.

How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words. (limit 1,100 characters)
3. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or enhanced outcomes. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words. (limit 1,100 characters)
4. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words. (limit 1,100 characters)
5. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic, or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words. (limit 1,100 characters)
6. You are required to certify that you are using you own words to answer these four essay questions and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).
 A. I certify that I used my own words and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).
 B. I do NOT certify that I am using my own words, and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Interdisciplinary position (Computational Quantitative Analyst) with the Federal government.
1. From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your education and/or experience to meet the basic qualification requirements for the Economist series 0110.  (Transcripts are required at time of application to verify this basic requirement. Failure to submit may disqualify you from consideration)
 A. I have a degree in economics, that included at least 21 semester hours in economics and 3 semester hours in statistics, accounting, or calculus.
 B. I have a combination of education and experience: courses equivalent to a major in economics, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 C. I do not possess the education and/or experience described above
2. From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your education and/or experience to meet the basic qualification requirements for the Mathematics series 1520.  (Transcripts are required at time of application to verify this basic requirement. Failure to submit may disqualify you from consideration)
 A. A. Degree: mathematics; or the equivalent of a major that included at least 24 semester hours in mathematics. The total course work must have included differential and integral calculus and, in addition, four advanced mathematics courses requiring calculus or equivalent mathematics courses as a prerequisite.
 B. B. Combination of education and experience - courses equivalent to a major in mathematics (including at least 24 semester hours in mathematics), as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. The total course work must have included differential and integral calculus and, in addition, four advanced mathematics courses requiring calculus or equivalent mathematics courses as a prerequisite.
 C. I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.
3. From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your education and/or experience to meet the basic qualification requirements for the Data Science series 1560. (Transcripts are required at time of application to verify this basic requirement. Failure to submit may disqualify you from consideration)
 A. I have a degree in Mathematics, statistics, computer science, data science or field directly related to the position. The degree must be in a major field of study (at least at the baccalaureate level) that is appropriate for the position.
 B. I have a combination of education and experience: Courses equivalent to a major field of study (30 semester hours) as shown in paragraph A above, plus additional education or appropriate experience.
 C. I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.
4. From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your education and/or experience to meet the basic qualification requirements for the Actuarial Science Series 1510 GS-09 Grade Level. (Transcripts are required at time of application to verify this basic requirement. Failure to submit may disqualify you from consideration)
 A. I have a master's degree or equivalent graduate degree, or 2 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master's degree in actuarial science; mathematics, statistics, business, finance, economics, insurance, or computer science; AND A bachelor's degree that included courses in actuarial science, mathematics, relevant statistics, business, finance, economics, insurance, or computer science totaling at least 24 semester hours. This course work must have included a minimum of 12 semester hours of mathematics that included differential and integral calculus and one or more courses in mathematics for which these calculus courses were prerequisites.
 B. I have one a combination of education and experience that includes both of the following requirements: One year of actuarial experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level; and A bachelor's degree that included courses in actuarial science, mathematics, relevant statistics, business, finance, economics, insurance, or computer science totaling at least 24 semester hours. This course work must have included a minimum of 12 semester hours of mathematics that included differential and integral calculus and one or more courses in mathematics for which these calculus courses were prerequisites.
 C. Special Alternate Means: Completed a minimum of 24 semester hours of courses in actuarial science, mathematics, relevant statistics, business, finance, economics, insurance, or computer science at a four year college or university. This course work must have included a minimum of 12 semester hours of mathematics that included differential and integral calculus and one or more courses in mathematics for which these calculus courses were prerequisites. AND Successful completion of two of the appropriate examinations offered by the Society of Actuaries(SOA) or the Casualty Actuarial Society(CAS), or credit for two of the Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries(JBEA) examinations, as evidenced by an official SOA or CAS transcript.
 D. I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.
5. From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your education and/or experience to meet the basic qualification requirements for the Actuarial Science Series 1510 GS-11 Grade Level. (Transcripts are required at time of application to verify this basic requirement. Failure to submit may disqualify you from consideration)
 A. I have a Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D degree in actuarial science, mathematics, statistics, business, finance, economics, insurance, or computer science; AND A bachelor's degree that included courses in actuarial science, mathematics, relevant statistics, business, finance, economics, insurance, or computer science totaling at least 24 semester hours. This course work must have included a minimum of 12 semester hours of mathematics that included differential and integral calculus and one or more courses in mathematics for which these calculus courses were prerequisites.
 B. I have one year of actuarial experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level; and A bachelor's degree that included courses in actuarial science, mathematics, relevant statistics, business, finance, economics, insurance, or computer science totaling at least 24 semester hours. This course work must have included a minimum of 12 semester hours of mathematics that included differential and integral calculus and one or more courses in mathematics for which these calculus courses were prerequisites. Technical work experience in actuarial support work or in mathematics; and Completion of a minimum of 24 semester hours of courses in actuarial science, mathematics, relevant statistics, business, finance, economics, insurance, or computer science at a four year college or university. This course work must have included a minimum of 12 semester hours of mathematics that included differential and integral calculus and one or more courses in mathematics for which these calculus courses were prerequisites.
 C. Special Alternate Means: Completed a minimum of 24 semester hours of courses in actuarial science, mathematics, relevant statistics, business, finance, economics, insurance, or computer science at a four year college or university. This course work must have included a minimum of 12 semester hours of mathematics that included differential and integral calculus and one or more courses in mathematics for which these calculus courses were prerequisites. AND One year of professional actuarial experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 level and successful completion of three of the SOA or CAS examinations, or credit for three of the JBEA examinations.
 D. I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.
6. From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your experience to meet the qualification requirements for the Interdisciplinary (Computational Quantitative Analyst) position at the GS-09 level.
 A. I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade of a GS-07 or equivalent band level of responsibility in Federal Service which includes experience: 1- Applying economic principles, analytical techniques, or programming languages to manage and analyze data, and 2- conducting research in actuarial science, data science, mathematics, or statistics.
 B. I do not possess the experience described above.
7. From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your experience to meet the qualification requirements for the Interdisciplinary (Computational Quantitative Analyst) position at the GS-11 level.
 A. I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade of a GS-09 or equivalent band level of responsibility in Federal Service which includes: 1-Conducting quantitative research; 2- analyzing economic data, and applying data science techniques to solve problems; and 3-preparing reports in actuarial science, data science, mathematics, or statistics.
 B. I do not possess the experience described above.
8. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and is supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected