Position Title
PROGRAM SUPPORT SPECIALIST
Agency
Securities and Exchange Commission
Announcement Number
25-IN-12781301-TMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 27, 2025 to Wednesday, September 3, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Have you served on a Schedule C appointment or as a political appointee anytime within the last 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current SEC employee serving on a permanent or conditional appointment? 

To determine your eligibility, please refer to your last SF-50.  To be eligible, your tenure code must be 1 or 2 AND your status must reflect competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1). 

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. From the options below, please indicate the choice that BEST describes your situation:
 A. I am an external candidate and I certify that I have read and understand that should I be selected for the position, the resume and application materials I have submitted will be used to determine salary. I also understand that I will not be permitted to provide an updated resume to OHR after the application period has closed.
 B. I am a current SEC employee and I certify that I have read and understand that should I be selected for this position and it results in a promotion, the standard percentage increase will be applied (i.e., 6% for non-supervisory and 10% for supervisory positions) to determine my salary. I understand that should I be selected for this position and it results in lateral movement (i.e. no change in grade) I will maintain my current salary. I also understand that if I should be selected for this position and it results in a change in grade from an SK-15 to an SK-16, I will maintain my current salary.
2. How did you hear about this position?
--Select-- 
--Select--
American Economic Association (AEA-JOE Network)
Career Fair (Please specify below)
College/University Job Board (e.g., Handshake, Symplicity)
Email from SEC Recruitment Team
Facebook
Friend (non-SEC Employee)
Friend (SEC Employee) (Please specify below)
I am a current SEC Employee or Contractor
Indeed
Job Board (Please specify below)
LinkedIn – Job Post
LinkedIn – Message from SEC Recruiter
SEC Careers Website (www.sec.gov/careers)
SEC Information Session
Social Science Research Network (SSRN)
USAJOBS – Job Search
USAJOBS – Message from SEC Recruiter
USAJOBS – Saved Search Email
X (formerly known as "Twitter")
Other source (e.g., job board, print ad, professional organization, website) (Please specify below)
3. Please specify based on your selection above as applicable:
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. Are you current SEC competitive employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. From the descriptions below, select the response that best describes your ability to perform as a Program Specialist, SK-301-12.
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience at the SK-11:(1) Researching and analyzing established administrative issues; (2) Acting as liaison with individuals and groups both inside and outside the SEC regarding administrative and/or organizational matters; (3) Gathering data and information for use in the annual operating budget; and (4) Assisting with the development of administrative policies.
 B. My level of experience is not described above.
3. From the list below select the statements that describe your knowledge of administrative processes and practices and specialized knowledge of programs and policies that pertain to human resources, budget, procurement, logistics, facilities, and travel management. (Please select all that apply):
 A. I have performed clearly-defined liaison tasks to support timekeeping and human resources administrative activities of a routine nature.
 B. I have participated in the administration of a small, stable budget involving basic administrative expenses.
 C. I have participated in operational or planning meetings to discuss program or project milestones or activities.
 D. I have participated in identifying and resolving procurement administration problems of a routine nature.
 E. I have performed t travel management activities of a routine nature.
 F. I have performed clearly-defined administrative tasks in support of established requirements for supplies, property management, or office moves, such as obtaining regularly required office supplies and services.
 G. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task.
4. Please choose the administrative processes and practices you have experience with. (Please select all that apply):
 A. I have performed travel management
 B. I have conducted training for a new administrative process
 C. I have maintained a tracking system
 D. I have requisitioned office supplies and/or equipment
 E. I have utilized MS Word and other computer processing applications
 F. I have not had experience in performing this task.
5. Select the statement that best demonstrates your experience applying analytical techniques and evaluative methods to issues or studies concerning administrative and related management matters in order to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of operations.
 A. I have participated in administering common aspects of agency programs, such as reviewing requests for routine administrative actions, or analyzing straightforward work processes against agency productivity criteria.
 B. I have supported the substantive aspects of agency programs, such as analyzing background information to identify program issues from information available, or developing a draft of local procedures for implementation of new or revised directives.
 C. I have applied established program concepts in an organization with a variety of difficult program needs, or investigated and prepared recommendations on difficult issues or sensitive information, or evaluated ongoing operations for significant organization missions or programs.
 D. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task.
6. Select the statement(s) that demonstrate(s) your experience with processes improvement: (Please select all that apply)
 A. I have analyzed administrative issues against proposed policy and procedural changes to determine the impact on support and operations activities.
 B. I have monitored action items and project deadlines to ensure timely completion.
 C. I have recommended plans, goals and objectives for the long-range implementation and administration of the office.
 D. I have recommended new or modified work methods.
 E. I have assisted in developing new administrative or program plans or schedules using standard references or established practices, procedures, or guidelines.
 F. I have no experience in performing this task.
7. Please choose from the list below the statement that best describes your experience with records and data management.
 A. I have performed records and data management, and have performed this function as a routine part of my other administrative duties.
 B. I have some practical experience with records and data management, and have performed this function weekly as a part of my other administrative duties.
 C. I have limited experience with records and data management, and have infrequently performed this function.
 D. I have no experience in performing this task.
8. Select the statement that best demonstrates your knowledge of research and analysis to perform management-related studies.
 A. I have performed analytical and evaluative studies to resolve stable or straightforward administrative or program-related issues and problems, such as studying clerical work processes across organizations.
 B. I have assisted in portions of analytical and evaluative studies to identify and resolve straightforward issues and problems.
 C. I have performed analytical and evaluative studies to identify and resolve changing administrative issues with some precedence.
 D. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task.
9. Select all of the software that you have experience utilizing. (Please select all that apply)
 A. Microsoft Word
 B. Microsoft Excel
 C. Microsoft Access
 D. Microsoft PowerPoint
 E. Timekeeping software
 F. Travel planning software
 G. None of the above.
10. Please choose from the list below the choice that best describes your ability to respond to requests for technical or other information relating to organizational practices and processes.
 A. I have coordinated and delivered responses to requests for technical or other information relating to organizational practices and processes that span multiple projects/programs to large customer audiences.
 B. I have responded to customer requests from within my organization for technical or other information relating to organizational practices and processes.
 C. I have participated in a coordinated effort to respond to customer requests that involve multiple issues and/or program areas.
 D. I have no experience in performing this task.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected