Position Title
Electronic Industrial Controls Mechanic
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLADist-25-12792781-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 18, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
10
11
12
3. Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement
Assessment 1
1. This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience needed to qualify for this position. From the description below, choose the statement that BEST describes your background relevant to this position. YOU CAN ONLY SELECT ONE RESPONSE. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THIS QUESTION WILL RESULT IN YOU BEING RATED INELIGIBLE.
 A. For WG-10 - I independently perform the more complex duties in a developmental capacity, such as test, analyze, and repair a wide variety of complicated electronic and electro-mechanical equipment, evaluate operational characteristics by observing waveforms, voltage indications, and instrument readings, and locate malfunctions, then isolate and replace abnormal component parts.
 B. For WG-10 - I perform the common tasks of the job to be filled on my own initiative and receive help from my supervisor on more complex duties, such as test, analyze, and repair a wide variety of complicated electronic and electro-mechanical equipment, handle unforeseen defects and ensure stable operation of new, complex systems, and maintains, repairs, and services laser bar code scanners.
 C. For WG-10 - I perform the common tasks of the job to be filled but under close supervision, such as adjust components and subsystems to achiever proper system operation, use of common hand tools and test equipment such as multimeters, volt probes, and logic analyzers, and use of blueprints, schematics, and other technical guidance to complete work.
 D. For WG-11 - I independently perform the more complex duties with minimal instruction, such as write, modify, and edit programmable controller programs, evaluate operational characteristics by observing and analyzing program code, schematics, and instrument readings, and provide technical advice and consulting support to engineering personnel.
 E. For WG-11 - I perform the common tasks of the job to be filled on my own initiative and receive help from my supervisor on more complex duties, such as maintain, repair, service, develop, and implement modifications on computer controlled material handling systems and components, maintain programmable controller program documentation to include changes and edits, and test, analyze, and repair a wide variety of complicated electronic and electro-mechanical equipment
 F. For WG-11 - I perform the common tasks of the job to be filled but under close supervision, such as locate malfunctions, then isolate and replace abnormal component parts, troubleshoots electronic sub-systems and components with numerous remote units, and use of blueprints, schematics, and other technical guidance to complete work.
 G. For WG-12 - I independently perform the more complex duties, such as studies technical data and equipment specifications to determine the impact modifications may have, adjusts components and sub-systems to achieve proper system operation, and provides technical advice and consulting support to engineering personnel.
 H. For WG-12 - I perform the common tasks of the job to be filled on my own initiative and receive help from my supervisor on more complex duties, such as test, analyze, repair, reconstruct, and reprogram a wide variety of electronic and electro-mechanical equipment, write, modify, and edit programmable controller programs, and evaluate operational characteristics by observing and analyzing program code, schematics, and instrument readings.
 I. For WG-12 - I perform the common tasks of the job to be filled but under close supervision, such as test, analyze, and repair, a wide variety of electronic and electro-mechanical equipment, locate malfunctions, then isolate and replace abnormal component parts, and handle unforeseen defects and insure stable operation of major, new, complex systems.
 J. My experience is not reflected in the above statements.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected