Position Title
Medical Records Technician (Cancer Registrar)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBST-12761838-25-AB Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 17, 2025 to Monday, July 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Basic Requirements for the position of Medical Records Technician (Cancer Registrar) GS-0675
To qualify for this position, you must meet the basic requirements as well as any additional requirements (if applicable) listed in the job announcement.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7403(f)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Experience and Education

(1) Experience. One year of experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology and general understanding of the health record. Six months of the required one year of experience must have provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) needed to perform MRT work. OR

(2) Education. Two years above high school with a minimum of 12 semester hours directly related to MRT work (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, and introduction to health records). OR 

(3) Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of experience and education are qualifying. The following educational/training substitutions are appropriate for combining education and experience:
(a) Six months of experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology and general understanding of the health record and one year above high school with a minimum of six semester hours of health information technology courses.
(b) Successful completion of a course for medical technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or hospital training obtained in a training program given by the Armed Forces or the U.S. Maritime Service under close medical and professional supervision. Training may be substituted on a month-for-month basis for up to six months of experience, provided the training program included courses in anatomy, physiology, and medical record techniques and procedures. The position requires six additional months of experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology and general understanding of the health record.

If using education to qualify, your transcripts showing the degree earned and completion/confer date must be provided as a supporting document.

Please select the response below that best describes your experience and/or education for this position.
 A. I have one year of experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology and general understanding of the health record. Six months of the required one year of experience is using the provided knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) needed to perform MRT work.
 B. I have two years above high school with a minimum of 12 semester hours directly related to MRT work (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, and introduction to health records). Must provide transcripts.
 C. I have equivalent combinations of experience and education to qualify. This includes six months of experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology and general understanding of the health record and one year above high school with a minimum of six semester hours of health information technology courses. As well as, successful completion of a course for medical technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or hospital training obtained in a training program given by the Armed Forces or the U.S. Maritime Service under close medical and professional supervision.
 D. I qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation).
 E. I do not meet any of the experience and/or education mentioned above.
Grade Level Requirements - Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.
3. MRT (Cancer Registrar), GS-04

Experience or Education. None beyond basic requirements.

Please select the response below that best describes your qualification for the GS-04 MRT (Cancer Registrar)
 A. Yes, I meet the basic requirements.
 B. No, I do not meet the basic requirements.
4. MRT (Cancer Registrar), GS-05

Experience. One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level or successful completion of four years of education above high school from an accredited college or university with a minimum of 24 semester hours in health information technology.

In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs):
(a) Ability to utilize health information technology and various office software products utilized in MRT (Cancer Registrar) positions (e.g., the electronic health record, coding and abstracting software, release of information systems, etc.).
(b) Knowledge of the Joint Commission requirements, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Commission on Cancer, and American College of Surgeons (ACoS) guidance and/or health record documentation guidelines.
(c) Ability to manage priorities and coordinate work to complete duties within required timeframes and ability to follow-up on pending issues.

Please select the response below that best describes your qualifications for the GS-05 MRT (Cancer Registrar).

 A. Yes, I possess one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level or successful completion of four years of education above high school from an accredited college or university with a minimum of 24 semester hours in health information technology and my resume demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities for the GS-05 MRT (Cancer Registrar).
 B. No, I do not possess the the required experience and my resume does not demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities for the GS-05 MRT (Cancer Registrar).
5. MRT (Cancer Registrar), GS-06

Experience. One year of experience equivalent to the next lower level.

In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:

(a) Knowledge of medical terminology to understand the content of the medical record. 
(b) Knowledge of anatomy and physiology to understand the location of the cancer.
(c) Ability to operate computerized programs to review documentation within the electronic medical record.
(d) Ability to notify appropriate parties and organize all required documentation to ensure complete case presentation at tumor boards.

Please select the response below that best describes your qualifications for the GS-06 MRT (Cancer Registrar).
 A. Yes, I possess one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level and my resume demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities for the GS-06 MRT (Cancer Registrar).
 B. No, I do not possess the the required experience and my resume does not demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities for the GS-06 MRT (Cancer Registrar).
6. MRT (Cancer Registrar), GS-07

Experience. One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level.

In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
(a) Knowledge of pathophysiology to understand the spread of the cancer disease process.
(b) Ability to analyze the electronic health record and enter appropriate data into the OncoTrax cancer registry software abstract.
(c) Knowledge of ACoS standards regarding tumor boards, including clinical staging, prognostic indicators, clinical guidelines, and clinical trials availability.

Please select the response below that best describes your qualifications for the GS-07 MRT (Cancer Registrar).
 A. Yes, I possess one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level and my resume demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities for the GS-07 MRT (Cancer Registrar).
 B. No, I do not possess the the required experience and my resume does not demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities for the GS-07 MRT (Cancer Registrar).
7. MRT (Cancer Registrar), GS-08

Experience. One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level.

In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
(a) Knowledge of professional registry operations.
(b) Knowledge of medical terminology, staging of cancer, and requirements of internal and external approving organizations.
(c) Knowledge of the cancer committee processes and procedures to improve patient care and verify compliance with ACoS and/or facility standards.
(d) Ability to serve as a subject matter expert on cancer programs for the medical center.
(e) Skill in utilizing electronic health records and cancer registry software.

Please select the response below that best describes your qualifications for the GS-08 MRT (Cancer Registrar).
 A. Yes, I possess one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level and my resume demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities for the GS-08 MRT (Cancer Registrar).
 B. No, I do not possess the the required experience and my resume does not demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities for the GS-08 MRT (Cancer Registrar).
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected