Position Title
Paralegal Specialist
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OFO0-DE(RG)-12756193-PJK Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 2, 2025 to Wednesday, July 9, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a recent graduate who has, within the previous two years, completed (or will have completed as indicated in the job announcement) a qualifying Associates, Bachelors, Masters, Doctorate, professional, vocational or technical degree or certificate program or completed a qualifying career or technical education program (which may include Registered Apprenticeship Programs, Job Corps, AmeriCorps, and Peace Corps)? Note: Veterans unable to apply within two years of receiving their degree due to military service obligation have up to six years after degree completion to apply.

For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate Resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your conferred transcripts (unofficial conferred transcripts are acceptable at this time; however, official copies will be required prior to entrance on duty). If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
7
9
2. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you receiving a civilian retirement annuity from OPM based on retiring from the Federal government? If you select yes and you are selected for this position, your salary will be off-set by the amount of your civilian retirement annuity.

To verify, you must submit a copy of your retirement SF-50 with your application package. It is also recommended to submit a copy of your most recent annuity statement.

Note, this does not apply to military retirement and annuity pay.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by CBP. Individuals are required to have physically resided in the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law) for at least three of the last five years, before completing an application for CBP employment.

If you do not meet the residency requirement as stated above and you have been physically located in a foreign location for more than two of the last five years, you may request an exception to determine if you are eligible for a residency wavier by meeting one or more of the following conditions:
Working for the U.S. Government as a federal civilian or as a member of the military
A dependent who was authorized to accompany a federal civilian or member of the military who was working for the U.S. government
Participation in a study abroad program sponsored by a U.S. affiliated college or university
Working as a contractor, intern, consultant or volunteer supporting the U.S. government

Exceptions may be granted to applicants if they can provide complete state-side coverage information required to make a suitability determination. Examples of state-side coverage information include: the state-side address of the company headquarters where the applicant's personnel file is located, the state-side address of the Professor in charge of the applicant's "Study Abroad" program, and/or the state-side addresses of anyone who worked or studied with the applicant while overseas. If selected for a position, you must provide documentation to support a request for an exception.

Do you meet the residency requirement?
 A. Yes, for at least 3 of the last 5 years I physically resided within the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law).
 B. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am a current CBP employee.
 C. No, I do not meet this requirement and am therefore requesting an exception under one of the criteria listed above. I understand that if selected for this position, I will be required to provide supporting documentation for the period of time I have spent outside of the United States.
 D. No, I do not meet this requirement and am not requesting an exception. I understand that since I do not meet CBP’s residency requirement, I cannot be considered for a position with CBP at this time.
5. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
6. Are you a current or former Federal employee? If yes, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your SF-50(s) (Notification of Personnel Action) to support your experience. Also, ensure that your resume contains a detailed description of your federal work experience, including the dates you performed those duties, your hours worked per week, job title, as well as series, grade level(s), and salary (if applicable).
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. If selected for this position, you must successfully complete a multi-week training at a designated training facility as outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement. Failure to successfully complete the required training course(s) in accordance with the standards and policies of Customs and Border Protection will be grounds for removal from the position. Such failure will result in either reassignment to a former or different position, demotion, or separation by appropriate procedures.

If you have previously attended this training, the requirement may be waived. If you answer "no" to the training agreement acknowledgment question below, you will be removed from further consideration for this position.

Do you acknowledge the training requirement and agree to the terms outlined in the job opportunity announcement and above?
 A. Yes, I confirm that I understand and agree to the term as outlined in the job opportunity announcement and above.
 B. No, I do not agree to the training requirement terms and understand that I will be removed from further consideration for this position.
Assessment 1
The following questions will only be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following best describes your experience and/or education to qualify for the GS-07 grade level?

 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes assisting with reviewing legal documents to extract selected data and information relating to specified items; assisting with reviewing and summarizing legal information in prescribed format on case precedents and decisions; searching for and extracting legal references in libraries and computer data banks; communicating effectively orally and in writing.
 B. I have successfully completed one year (or more) of full-time graduate education or a Master's (or higher) degree from an accredited college or university. Such education must demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 C. I have successfully completed all the requirements for a Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university and claim eligibility for superior academic achievement (SAA) based on one of the following: (1) class standing, (2) grade-point average, or (3) honor society membership. (See qualifications section in the job opportunity announcement for more information.) I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 D. I have a combination of successfully completed education and experience that is at least 100% as described in the Combining Experience and Education statement in the announcement posting. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 E. I do not possess the specialized experience and/or education as described above.
2. Which of the following best describes your experience and/or education to qualify for the GS-09 grade level?

 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes assisting in reviewing and processing cases through to solution; assisting in assuring that all due process considerations are met and that the elements necessary to establish a violation are present and are supported by appropriate documentation; receiving and examining petitions filed by individuals, corporations, or attorneys seeking relief from seizures, penalties, fines, or liquidated damages; reviewing acceptability of evidence in some seizure, fines, and penalty cases and all liquidated damages.
 B. I have successfully completed two or more years of full-time graduate education or a Master's (or higher) degree from an accredited college or university or an LL.B. or J.D that demonstrates the skills necessary to do the work. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 C. I have a combination of successfully completed education and experience that is at least 100% as described in the Combining Experience and Education statement in the announcement posting. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 D. I do not possess the specialized experience and/or education as described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
3. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of legal principles and concepts of customs and general administrative law.

 A. I have no knowledge of legal principles and concepts of customs or general administrative law.
 B. I have received training in legal principles and concepts of general administrative law, but I have had no experience applying this training in a job setting.
 C. In addition to relevant training, I have had some experience applying legal principles and concepts of customs law in a job setting.
 D. I have had extensive experience applying the legal principles and concepts of customs and general administrative law as part of my on-the-job responsibilities.
4. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of legal reference sources (e.g. agency manuals, reference systems, directives, issuances, precedent decisions, court decisions, commercial legal publications) as well as methods of legal research.

 A. I have no knowledge or experience with legal reference sources or methods of legal research.
 B. I have had some exposure to a variety of legal reference sources and methods of research gained from relevant training and limited on-the-job experience.
 C. I have a working knowledge of most types of legal reference sources and methods of research gained from relevant training, as well as, substantial on-the-job experience.
 D. I have extensive knowledge of all legal reference sources and methods of research gained from years of experience researching and using the reference sources as part of my on-going duties.
5. Select the choice that best describes your ability to communicate information orally to others.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have communicated my ideas or other information to individuals or groups primarily within my organization on non-technical matters, using terminology that was familiar to the audience. I have occasionally participated in formal group discussions.
 C. I have communicated occasionally with persons or groups outside of my organization, or I have participated actively as a member of my organization or group in discussions, meetings, or team projects where I had to express my ideas or opinions on non-technical and non-specialized matters.
 D. I have represented my organization or group in meetings and dealings with other groups or organizations for the purpose of proposing and gaining acceptance of ideas and explaining or coordinating views regarding complex, technical, or specialized subject matter.
6. Select the choice that best describes your ability to gather and analyze facts, determine the accuracy of the data, define problems, and identify solutions.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have gathered data/information in preparation for analysis by others.
 C. I have gathered data/information, analyzed it, and summarized the results of my findings.
 D. I have gathered data/information, performed analyses, summarized results, and identified problem areas.
 E. I have gathered statistical data and narrative information, performed analyses, summarized results, identified problem areas, and proposed/implemented solutions.
7. Select the choice that best describes your ability to research and problem-solve to resolve conflicting statements.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had limited exposure to problem solving and/or researching conflicting statements and have no on-the-job experience.
 C. I possess a basic understanding of research and how to problem-solve conflicting statements, and have performed this task on the job with supervision and assistance.
 D. I have experience independently and successfully researching and problem-solving conflicting statements as a routine part of my job.
 E. I have extensive knowledge of research and problem solving conflicting statements, and I am often seen as a resource for others when performing this task.
8. Indicate the extent to which you have planned and organized your own work.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have completed my work according to specific instructions given to me by my supervisor.
 C. I have organized my work, mainly involving recurring assignments.
 D. I have prioritized and planned my work, taking into account changing priorities and assignments.
9. Do you have experience applying sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives and recommend a solution?

 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Select the choice which best describes your ability to communicate in writing.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written responses to requests for information, or I have edited non-technical writing from others.
 C. I have written policies, procedures, training manuals, or other technical materials.
 D. I have explained in writing the application of laws, regulations, and precedents covering legal actions, or I have written other materials that presented sensitive or controversial information.
11. Select the choice which best represents your experience gathering existing information from various sources, including computer systems, to prepare routine reports.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had experience locating and gathering information from reference sources (for example, library materials or the Internet) for academic assignments.
 C. I have had experience locating and gathering information for academic assignments and in work settings, and I have used a variety of sources (for example, reference materials, files, records, databases, reports, or the Internet).
 D. I have had extensive experience locating and gathering information in a work setting using a variety of sources. I have applied the information collected to the performance of my work responsibilities and disseminated information as appropriate.
12. Select the choice that best describes your experience evaluating evidence, facts, circumstances, and other incidents to better process a case.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have gathered basic information relating to a case that others were responsible for working.
 C. I have had some experience processing evidence, facts, and circumstances relating to routine cases that I have worked.
 D. I have had extensive experience processing evidence, facts, and circumstances relating to my case workload, and I have used this information to reconcile inconsistencies as necessary.
 E. I have been responsible for ensuring that others process evidence, facts, and circumstances relating to different cases, reviewed their findings, and used the information to reconcile inconsistencies.
13. Have you been responsible for preparing and recommending decisions on cases?

 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Select the choice which best reflects your experience in reviewing case files, identifying salient issues, and applying the relevant laws in a written decision.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have reviewed some routine case files for salient issues and presented my findings to others more senior than myself.
 C. I have had some experience reviewing case files of both a routine and complex nature to identify salient issues, as well as, researching the applicable laws.
 D. I have had extensive experience reviewing case files to identify salient issues and applying the relevant laws in written decisions.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected