Position Title
Medical Instrument Technician (Diagnostic Ultrasound)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTA-12753388-25-KM Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, June 24, 2025 to Wednesday, July 9, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. Are you willing to accept the working conditions as indicated in the announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. In accordance with VA Handbook 5005, Part I, pre-employment reference checks have been incorporated into the selection process. Hiring officials must conduct pre-employment reference checks with a current or previous supervisor prior to HR staff extending a tentative offer.

In the textbox below, please provide the name, telephone number and email address of at least 4 professional references. Two of these references must be a current or previous supervisor. If two supervisory references are not available, provide the name, telephone number and email address of individuals who were in a position to directly observe your work. Please also indicate in the textbox below if you prefer to be contacted before your current or previous supervisor is contacted, or if you prefer to provide your references upon request.

*Note: Hiring Officials may request alternate/additional references.
Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Citizenship:  Citizenship of the United States. (Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3g, this part.)

Are you a Citizen of the United States?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. English Language Proficiency: Medical Instrument Technicians must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with chapter 2, section D, paragraph 5a, this part.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d) and 7407(d)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
GS-9 Qualifications:  In addition to the core competencies defined at the GS-8 full performance level, positions at this grade may be lead, supervisory, or non-supervisory with specialized advanced knowledge and assignments.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. Experience: At least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level, which is directly related to the duties of the position to be filled, and must fully meet the KSAs at that level. This would be specialized experience which demonstrates possession of the knowledge required in order to provide all aspects of diagnostic ultrasonography services.


Do you meet this GS-9 level qualification above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: In addition to at least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level, which is directly related to the duties of the position to be filled, the candidate must fully meet and demonstrate the following technical KSAs and the potential to acquire the assignment specific KSAs designated by an asterisk (*):
 
Knowledge of the more complex examination and treatment procedures and techniques in order to provide training and supervision in these procedures, to evaluate and initiate performance improvement projects, and to write policies, procedures, and protocols that pertain to diagnostic ultrasonography.
(*) Knowledge of JCAHO and other regulatory requirements.
(*) Ability to communicate effectively and professionally with employees at varying grade levels.

Do you possess the KSA's listed above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5.  Certification:  Licensure or Certification is not required for this occupation; however, it is strongly desirable at GS-6 or above as evidence of possession of the essential knowledge, skills, and abilities.  For certain functional areas at the higher levels or supervisory assignments, specific certifications appropriate to the specialty are indicated in this standard under "Titles and Certification/Registrations".  For all specialties identified in this standard, Basic and Advanced Cardiac Life Support certifications are desirable. Training which does not result in official certification does not meet this definition.

Diagnostic Ultrasound Technicians Registration is offered by Cardiovascular Credentialing International (CCI) or by the American Registry of Diagnostic Medical Sonographers (ARDMS).

Are you certified by the Cardiovascular Credentialing International (CCI) or by the American Registry of Diagnostic Medical Sonographers (ARDMS)?

NOTE: Please remember to upload a copy of your registration with your application.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Certification:  Basic Cardiac Life Support (BCLS) and Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) certifications are desirable.

Do you possess a BCLS and ACLS certification?

NOTE: Please upload a copy of your registration with your application.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected