Position Title
Information Technology Specialist
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OIT-IMP-12794712-SY Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 8, 2025 to Friday, September 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under non-temporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
3. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
4. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
5. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
6. I have experience with attention to detail when performing work and been conscientious about attending to detail.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. I have experience with customer service as it pertains to working with clients and customers to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfying their expectations.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. I have experience with communicating effectively orally. This includes making clear and convincing argument to individuals or groups including taking into account the audience and the nature of the information. Along with listening to others while observing visual cues and responding appropriately.
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. I have experience problem solving which includes determining the accuracy and relevance of information. Along with using sound judgement to generate and evaluate alternatives and makes recommendation based on those findings.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-13 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes supporting teams in the planning, configuration, installation, troubleshooting, and implementation of stakeholder requirements; monitoring and updating incident management tracking, metrics, and problem resolution methods; diagnosing and resolving problems in response to customer-reported incidents; managing system resources including performance, capacity, availability, serviceability, and recoverability
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
Assessment 1
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
1. Indicate the extent of your experience conducting audit log reviews of information systems and security tools to identify, investigate, and report anomalies or abnormal activities.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in conducting audit log reviews of information systems and security tools to identify anomalies or abnormal activities.
 C. I have independently conducted audit log reviews of information systems and security tools to identify, investigate, and report anomalies or abnormal activities.
 D. I am considered a functional expert in conducting audit log reviews of information systems and security tools. Others seek me out due to my expertise in identifying, investigating, and reporting anomalies and abnormal activities in these systems and tools.
 E. I have supervised others in performing audit log reviews of information systems and security tools.
2. Indicate the extent of your experience reviewing monthly vulnerability scan reports for newly discovered vulnerabilities on information systems and network assets.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training in reviewing vulnerability scan reports, but I have not yet applied this training on the job.
 C. I have reviewed monthly vulnerability scan reports for newly discovered vulnerabilities on information systems and network assets, and have brought identified vulnerabilities to the attention of a supervisor or other senior individual (e.g., ISSO).
3. Indicate the extent of your experience restoring compromised devices and information systems to normal operations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training in restoring compromised devices and information systems to normal operations, but I have not yet applied this training on the job.
 C. I have used imaging techniques, logs, and dependencies tracking to restore compromised devices and information systems to normal operations.
 D. I have extensive experience using imaging techniques, logs, dependencies tracking, and other methods to restore compromised devices and information systems to normal operations. I have followed procedures to ensure that there was no loss of non-infected data created in the infection window.
4. Indicate the extent of your experience defining information security requirements.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training in defining information security requirements, but I have not yet applied this training on the job.
 C. I have served as a member of a group tasked with defining information security requirements.
 D. I have led one or more teams tasked with defining comprehensive information security requirements.
 E. In addition to having led teams responsible for defining information security requirements, I have coordinated efforts to implement the new procedures.
5. Indicate the extent of your experience addressing misuse and spillage of classified data in information systems.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have monitored information systems for spillage and misuse of sensitive data or Personally Identifiable Information (PII), and have made the proper notifications in response.
 C. I have monitored information systems for spillage and misuse of classified data, and have made the proper notifications in response.
 D. In addition to monitoring information systems for spillage and misuse of classified data and making the proper notifications in response, I have initiated containment protocols to contain and prevent further misuse/spillage.
 E. I have directed others in containment and mitigation of spillage and misuse of classified data, including making notifications and recommending policy changes to prevent future incidents.
6. Indicate the extent of your experience recommending changes to the design or monitoring of devices and information systems to improve security.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have served as a team member of a group responsible for recommending changes to the design or monitoring of devices and information systems to improve security.
 C. I have independently reviewed the adequacy of information security devices and information systems, and have made recommendations to my supervisor regarding design or monitoring to improve security.
 D. I have been responsible for official review of the adequacy of information security devices and information systems for an organization/agency. My recommendations regarding design and monitoring were implemented.
7. Indicate the extent of your experience implementing higher-level security requirements resulting from laws, regulations, or Presidential directives.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have followed the directions of a supervisor or other senior individual to apply higher-level security requirements resulting from laws, regulations, or Presidential directives to an information system.
 C. I have independently followed guidance from an implementation plan resulting from laws, regulations, or Presidential directives to implement higher-level security requirements for an information system.
 D. I have created implementation plans and led teams to implement higher-level security requirements resulting from laws, regulations, or Presidential directives for multiple information systems.
8. Indicate the extent of your experience conducting information systems security certification and accreditation requirements and processes.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have conducted portions of information systems security certification and accreditation requirements/processes under the close guidance of a supervisor or other senior individual.
 C. I have independently carried out assigned tasks related to conducting information systems security certification and accreditation requirements/processes. My work was not typically subject to review.
 D. I have led a process resulting in a security certification or accreditation for an information system.
9. Indicate the extent of your experience performing forensic digital media audits to support internal investigations (for example, misconduct, insider threats).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training in forensic analysis and have had some experience in applying this training to actual work situations such as data retrieval for hidden or deleted digital media/files, or recovering lost data for an on-going investigation.
 C. I have received training in forensic analysis and have had extensive experience in searching for and recovering deleted, hidden, or protected digital media/files related to internal investigations.
10. Indicate the extent of your experience maintaining relationships with personnel in other cybersecurity roles to identify and define current and future technologies to support information system security requirements.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have maintained relationships with individuals in cybersecurity roles in my work group or office, primarily in the completion of my regular job duties.
 C. I have maintained relationships with individuals in cybersecurity roles internal and external to my work group and office to exchange information, resolve problems, and identify and define current and future technologies to support information system security requirements.
 D. I have built and maintained relationships with individuals in cybersecurity roles external to my organization/agency to exchange information, resolve problems, and identify and define current and future technologies to support information system security requirements.
11. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of hardware platforms (PCs, laptops, netbooks, tablets, smart phones) with regards to cybersecurity.
 A. I have no knowledge of hardware platforms.
 B. I am aware of the current cybersecurity issues related to the primary hardware platform I work with.
 C. I maintain awareness of multiple hardware platform developments and hardware based security (e.g., encryption, cyber analytics, firewalling, intrusion prevention).
 D. In addition to maintaining awareness of multiple hardware platform developments and hardware-based security (e.g., encryption, cyber analytics, firewalling, intrusion prevention), I have evaluated such hardware and made recommendations related to adoption.
12. Indicate the extent of your experience performing life cycle management for information security assets.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others with one or more aspects of life cycle management for information security assets.
 C. I have been responsible for tracking an information security asset throughout its entire life cycle.
 D. I have overseen life cycle management for multiple information security assets throughout the entire lifecycle. My processes included work flow, traceability, accountability, management authority, and separation of duties.
13. Indicate the extent of your experience communicating with all levels of personnel within and outside your organization.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have conferred with others in my work unit on an individual basis.
 C. I have communicated with others within my organization (for example, project managers, management) to resolve problems, prevent potential conflicts, and ensure technical and operational requirements were met as part of my regular job duties.
 D. I have communicated extensively with others within my organization (for example, project managers, senior management) to reach/build consensus on cybersecurity program issues of considerable consequence that have arisen.
 E. I have communicated extensively to present policy or program-related information or issues of considerable consequence or importance to groups within and outside my organization (for example, Government officials, senior management, other analysts, other agencies).
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected