Position Title
Supervisory International Trade Analyst (Detail NTE 9 months)
Agency
U.S. International Trade Commission
Announcement Number
MP-25-048-JLM Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 12, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy

• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and

• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
2. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
6. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. To qualify at the GS-15 level, applicants must have at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-14, or equivalent level, in the Federal service. Specialized experience would include progressively responsible professional experience sufficient to show a normal level of progression and senior-level knowledge of the occupation. It should include specific experience: (a) in-depth knowledge of industrial manufacturing and processing techniques; production, distribution, and market dynamics; accounting principles; macroeconomics; and theories and techniques of economic, statistical, and financial analysis, particularly as these apply to import injury, trade remedy, antidumping/countervailing duty investigations or analysis; (b) supervisory or project coordination assignments that involved a staff of professional analysts and/or economists, which required developing creative and effective analytical approaches and research themes for examining international trade in services or related sectors;(c) proficient experience in working collaboratively and coordinating a variety of specialized and complex analytical projects regarding international trade; (d) expert experience preparing and reviewing data collection vehicles (questionnaires or detailed surveys) requesting a substantial volume of detailed, pertinent industry and economic data;(e) outstanding communication skills; and (f) at this level, you would lead a multi-disciplinary team in performing research, analysis, and reporting on trade remedy investigations with responsibility for determining methods and scope for accomplishing tasks. Do you meet this experience requirement?
 A. I have one-year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 obtained in the federal or private sector which includes: (a) in-depth knowledge of industrial manufacturing and processing techniques; production, distribution, and market dynamics; accounting principles; macroeconomics; and theories and techniques of economic, statistical, and financial analysis, particularly as these apply to import injury, trade remedy, antidumping/countervailing duty investigations or analysis; (b) supervisory or project coordination assignments that involved a staff of professional analysts and/or economists, which required developing creative and effective analytical approaches and research themes for examining international trade in services or related sectors;(c) proficient experience in working collaboratively and coordinating a variety of specialized and complex analytical projects regarding international trade; (d) expert experience preparing and reviewing data collection vehicles (questionnaires or detailed surveys) requesting a substantial volume of detailed, pertinent industry and economic data;(e) outstanding communication skills; and (f) at this level, you would lead a multi-disciplinary team in performing research, analysis, and reporting on trade remedy investigations with responsibility for determining methods and scope for accomplishing tasks.
 B. I do not meet any of the qualifications listed above.
3. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application or its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 C.F.R Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify that the information provided in this application and questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected