Position Title
Food Service Worker
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12769270 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 29, 2025 to Tuesday, September 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. I am willing and able to work a Part-time work schedule. A part-time schedule describes work performed between 20 to 34 hours per week.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 50 pounds.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. How much experience do you have in making a variety of fruit and vegetable salads, and simple sandwiches?
 A. I have experience in the food industry with making a variety of salads and simple sandwiches.
 B. I have experience in the food industry with making simple sandwiches.
 C. I have experience in the food industry with making a variety of salads
 D. I have no experience in the food industry with making salads or simple sandwiches
2. How much experience do you have in preparing and handling food in the food service industry?
 A. I have 2 or more years experience in preparing and handling food in the food service industry
 B. I have 1 - 2 years experience in preparing and handling food in the food service industry.
 C. I have less than a year experience in preparing and handling food in the food service industry
 D. I have no experience in preparing and handling food in the food service industry
3. How much experience do you have in operating a Point of Sale System?
 A. I have 2 or more years experience in operating a point-of-sale system.
 B. I have 1 - 2 years experience in operating a point-of-sale system.
 C. I have less than a year experience in operating a point-of-sale system.
 D. I have no experience in operating a point-of-sale system.
4. What best describes your experience providing customer service?
 A. I have 2 or more years experience providing customer service.
 B. I have 1 - 2 years experience providing customer service.
 C. I have less than a year experience providing customer service.
 D. I have no experience providing customer service
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. Did you remember to upload all required documents, resume, and any other supporting documents?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. How much experience do you have serving food in standard portions to patrons?
 A. I have 2 or more years experience serving food in standard portions to patrons.
 B. I have 1 - 2 years experience serving food in standard portions to patrons.
 C. I have less than a year experience serving food in standard portions to patrons.
 D. I have no experience serving food in standard portions to patrons.
7. What best describe your experience in taking food orders from customers and serving customers food in the food service industry?
 A. I have 2 or more years experience in taking food orders from customers and serving customers food in the food service industry.
 B. I have 1 - 2 years experience in taking food orders from customers and serving customers food in the food service industry.
 C. I have less than a year experience in taking food orders from customers and serving customers food in the food service industry
 D. I have no experience in taking food orders from customers and serving customers food in the food service industry.
8. What best describes your knowledge of common sanitation procedures to prevent contamination?
 A. I have extensive knowledge of common sanitation procedures to prevent contamination (i.e. 2 or more years of experience in the food service industry)
 B. I have a working knowledge of common sanitation procedures to prevent contamination (i.e. 1 - 2 years working experience in the food service industry)
 C. I have little knowledge of common sanitation procedures to prevent contamination (i.e. less than 1 year of experience in the food service industry.)
 D. I have no knowledge of common sanitation procedures to prevent contamination (i.e. no work experience in the food service industry).
9. Are your responses to the questionnaire reflected in your resume? By checking yes, I certify that, to the best of my knowledge all the information is true and made in good faith. I understand that a false or fraudulent answer to any question or item on any part that I will NOT be considered for this position.
 A. Yes, my answers to this questionnaire are supported by the experience/knowledge information provided in my resume.
 B. No, my answers are not reflected in my resume and I understand that I will NOT be considered for this position.
10. Work involves frequent lifting or moving of objects weighing up to 30 pounds; constant standing and walking; and occasional lifting of over 45 pounds. Are you able to meet these work requirements?
 A. Yes, I am able to lift and move objects weighing up to 30 pounds; constant standing and walking; and I am able to lift objects weighing up to 45 pounds.
 B. No, I am NOT able to lift and move objects weighing up to 30 pounds; constant standing and walking; or lifting objects weighing up to 45 pounds.
11. This position may be designated "ALPHA" personnel for inclement weather or in the interest of national security and may be required to report for work when other employees are excused. This position is subject to the possibility of working on weekends and holidays, as well as rotating shifts, often consisting of other than normal duty hours. The staff member may be recalled to duty and/or required to work overtime, as necessary to meet mission requirements. Are you able to work these requirements?
 A. Yes, I am able to work these requirements.
 B. No, I am NOT able to work these requirements
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected