Position Title
Attorney - Advisor (Labor)
Agency
Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers
Announcement Number
FLETC-DO-25-12802470 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 30, 2025 to Friday, October 10, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a U.S. citizen?

All U.S. citizens are eligible.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Glynco, GA
 B. Cheltenham, MD
 C. Artesia, NM
 D. Charleston, SC


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
13
14


OPM Narrative Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


COE
1.
The Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers does not recognize academic degrees (including any coursework leading to a degree) from schools that are not accredited by an accrediting institution recognized by the Department of Education. Any applicant falsely claiming an academic degree from an accredited school will be subject to actions ranging from disqualification from federal employment to removal from federal service. Please review the following link to determine your school's accreditation status: Accreditation: Postsecondary Education Institutions | U.S. Department of Education.
 I certify that my academic degree (or degrees) is from a college or university accredited by an accrediting institution recognized by the Department of Education.
 I have an academic degree (or degrees) from a college or university that is NOT accredited by an accrediting institution recognized by the Department of Education.
 I do not have an academic degree.


FLETC Data
1.
Did you accept a lump sum payment from the government through a workforce transition program such as the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP), Voluntary Early Retirement Authority (VERA), and/ or Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) before September 30th, 2025?
 Yes, I accepted a lump sum pay out from a workforce transition program.
 Yes, I accepted the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) only.
 No, I did not participate in either program.


2.
How did you learn about this Department of Homeland Security (DHS) job opportunity announcement?
Career Fair
Met a FLETC representative at a recruitment event
Magazine
Newspaper
Radio
TV
Poster
Private Employment Office
State Employment Office (Unemployment Office)
Agency Human Resources Development (bulletin board or other announcement)
Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college
Federal, state, or local Job Information Center
Religious organization
College, university, or career placement counselor
Friend or relative working for this agency
Friend or relative not working for this agency
USAJOBS
Professional Association
Publication
Conference
College Event
Private information service
LinkedIn
Other


3.
I have thoroughly reviewed the 'How to Apply/Required Documents' & 'Qualifications' sections of this Vacancy Announcement to determine which supplemental documents to submit. This may include: Transcripts to verify undergraduate/graduate education; A Current/Non-Award SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, noting current position title, series, grade, position occupied, tenure, highest salary (including basic pay) and duty location if I am a current/former Federal employee; DD-214 if I am a veteran (and SF-15/VA Letter if applicable), etc. I understand that failure to fax or upload required documents by the vacancy announcement's closing date may result in loss of consideration. Answer to this question is required.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙