Position Title
POWER PLANT SHIFT OPERATOR
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERH2612810215DHAR Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 2, 2025 to Tuesday, October 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the specialties you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one specialty.
 A. DR
 B. Shift Operator


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Power Plant Operator (Dual Rate)/Power Plant Shift Operator position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Power Plant Operator (Dual Rate)/Power Plant Shift Operator duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex duties serving as sole contact for all matters involving the operation of the total dam and reservoir project and am responsible for on-the-spot decisions for the operations of facilities. I am skilled in directing the work of journey level operators, on own initiative and with no requirement for supervision in a hydroelectric power generating plant. Experience utilizing supported software, i.e., SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition Systems), GDACS (Generic Data Acquisition and Control Systems). I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of duties for the safe and proper operation of a hydroelectric power plant, switchyard, and associated water structures. I am skilled in performing all operations in a control room and have the ability to take sole command of any normal or abnormal power plant operation problem. I have experience in supervisory control systems. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common tasks of a Power Plant Shift Operator in a hydroelectric power plant of 40-megawatt generation capability or larger. I can perform all tasks of a control room operator to include potential ability to take sole command of any normal or abnormal power plant operation problem and expeditiously execute the best solution such as could be exhibited in a recovery from a power blackout in the plant. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform common journey-level Power Plant Operator duties in a power producing plant such as hydropower, fossil fuels (such as coal, oil, and natural gas), nuclear, solar, and/or wind. I can restore a station service generator or main generator to service after routine maintenance, corrective maintenance, or after a major overhaul in a power plant. I can respond to system plant or disturbances with minimal supervision. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple tasks of a journey-level operator, but I require frequent supervisory guidance and inspection where major generating equipment is involved, or I have received training on power production.
 I do not have on-the-job training, or the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙