Position Title
Dental Assistant (Expanded Function)
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJT258407478228HW Opens in new window
Open Period
Saturday, June 14, 2025 to Wednesday, July 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Dental Assistant (Expanded Function), GS-0681-6 position with Department of Defense. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you meet the basic eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1. Public Law 97-35 requires that persons who administer radiologic procedures meet the credentialing standards of 42 CFR Part 75. You must (1) have successfully completed an educational program that meets or exceeds the standards described in that regulation, and is accredited by an organization recognized by the Department of Education, and (2) be certified as a radiographer in your field. Select the one statement that best describes how you meet this certification requirement.
 A. I meet the credentialing standards of 42 CFR Part 75. I have successfully completed an educational program that meets or exceeds the standards described in that regulation, and is accredited by an organization recognized by the Department of Education; AND am certified as a radiographer in my field. (Note: You must attach a copy of your certification.)
 B. I was employed by the Federal Government as radiologic personnel PRIOR TO the effective date of the regulation (January 13, 1986). (Note: You must attach evidence with your application of current or fully satisfactory performance or certification of such from a licensed
 C. I was first employed by the Federal Government as radiologic personnel AFTER the effective date of the regulation (January 13, 1986), and (1) received training from institutions in a State or foreign jurisdiction that did not accredit training in that particular field at the time of graduation; OR (2) practiced in a State or foreign jurisdiction that did not license that particular field or did not allow special eligibility to take a licensure examination for those who did not graduate from an accredited educational program. (Note: You must attach evidence with your application to prove training, experience, and competence. Examples of acceptable proof: transcripts, letter of recommendation, etc.)
 D. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
2. Applicants for Dental Assistant (Expanded Function) positions must have completed one-year of acceptable course work, preceptorship, or other formal training and/or work assignments specifically designed to equip them with knowledge and skills required to perform intra-oral procedures involved in the position to be filled. From the options below, select the one which decribes you training background.
 A. I have completed at least 1 year of courses in a dental hygiene or dental assistant program accredited by the American Dental Association's Commission on Accreditation that are directly related to the intra-oral procedures (also referred to as expanded functions) that are to be performed in the position to be filled.
 B. I have completed the U.S. Army's Dental Therapy Assistant Training Program.
 C. I have completed at least 1 year continuing education courses in expanded functions for dental assistants offered by the Indian Health Service of the Department of Health and Human Services.
 D. I have completed at least 1 year of other training comparable to the above in private or governmental hospitals, clinics, or schools that included formal classroom instruction and clinical training in the knowledge and skills required to perform intra-oral procedures in the position to be filled.
 E. My training is not reflected in any of the above statements.
3. Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Dental Assistant (Expanded Function) at the GS-06 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service which includes providing chair-side dental assistant expanded function duties to include performing oral prophylaxis and operating dental x-ray equipment to take intra and extra-oral radiographs.
 B. My experience is not reflected in any of the above statement.
4. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected