Position Title
SURFACE MAINTENANCE MECHANIC INSPECTOR T32
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
AZ-12751147-25-NW-25-069T Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, June 13, 2025 to Wednesday, July 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. US Citizens.  Are you a US Citizen?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. This position is in the Arizona Army National Guard and requires membership with the Arizona Army National Guard. This position is open to the U.S. Armed Forces and those eligible in becoming a member with the Arizona Army National Guard.? 

Are you currently a member or eligible in becoming a member of the Arizona Army National Guard?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you possess the rank of: 

SGT/E5 - MSG/1SG/E8
WO1/W1 - CW2/W2
Warrant Officer Candidate in the grades of E5-E8
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you possess at least one of the following MOSs:

Enlisted: 88M, 91 Series, 92 Series, and/or 94 Series
Warrant Officer: 882A, 91 Series, 92 Series, and/or 94 Series
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Do you possess or able to possess a secret security clearance?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Must have at least 24 months experience or training leading to an extensive knowledge of the mechanical makeup, operation, and working relationships of complex interconnecting systems, assemblies, and parts for a variety of combat, tactical, commercial, special purpose vehicles, and equipment. Ability to diagnose, repair, overhaul, and modify interconnected complex systems on a variety of combat, tactical, commercial, special purpose vehicles, and equipment. Extensive knowledge of state of the art electrical, electronic, complex hydraulic, pneumatic, and other major non-mechanical systems that have a functional relationship and effect on the operation of major mechanical systems. Extensive knowledge of hydraulic lifting, loading, turning, and positioning systems and their mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic, electrical, and electronic controls. Skill and knowledge to develop or improvise methods, alter parts, and make repairs in the absence of technical guidelines (such as modifying parts to fit and mesh into systems for which the parts were not designed); improvise modifications to equipment to correct recurring malfunctions; and design modifications to meet special test requirements or other special needs.

Do you meet the above qualification standards?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Respond to all statements and questions. These statements and questions allow applicants to highlight their Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs) which are applicable to the position for which you are applying. If it is necessary to limit the number of applicants for a position, these KSAs will be used to determine the "Best Qualified". For each KSA please identify below in the space provided how you have either demonstrated the KSA or have shown the potential to acquire them. Give specific examples describing related project, details, work assignments, outside activities, and the time frames involved in each. If you do not answer these statements and questions an accurate evaluation of your qualifications may not be possible. This may result in your application not being certified.
1. Ability to apply a wide variety of complex inspection techniques to examine a variety of heavy-duty mobile equipment (i.e., combat, tactical, etc.) and automotive vehicles (i.e., attack tanks, large cranes, tank retrievers, fire trucks, bridge transporters, armored vehicle launched bridges, bulldozers, road graders, crawler tractors, power shovels, self-propelled earth compacting equipment, self-propelled artillery, etc.); that may include inspection of heavy artillery, small arms, powered support and other equipment or components of equal or lesser complexity.
2. Comprehensive knowledge of GCSS-Army, and ability to input equipment and work order data, provide status of equipment, monitor job order status, and monitor work priorities.
3. Ability to utilize, interpret and apply parts list, manufacturer's repair manuals, technical manuals, diagrams, engineering drawings, diagnostic computer information, schematics, and Maintenance Expenditure Limits (MEL) to evaluate economic feasibility of repairs for any equipment in the Arizona Army National Guard inventory. Ability to consider a variety of factors such as cost and availability of parts, man-hours, and impact of time constraints on the mission to assess whether repair is economical.
4. Knowledge in all of the types of inspections addressed in DA PAMs, ATPs, and ARs by name, when to use them, and what the outcomes of the inspections are used for.
5. Ability to inspect complex, interrelated mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic, electronic, and electrical systems, equipment and their components while in operation or in a standby condition.
6. Knowledge in operating a wide variety of heavy-duty mobile equipment (i.e., combat, tactical, etc.) and automotive vehicles (i.e., attack tanks, large cranes, tank retrievers, fi re trucks, bridge transporters, armored vehicle launched bridges, bulldozers, road graders, crawler tractors, power shovels, self-propelled earth compacting equipment, self-propelled artillery, etc.)
7. Ability to prioritize workload, manage multiple maintenance and inspection work orders, research diagnostic and repair procedures, and research repair parts.
8. Ability to use specially designed testing methods and test equipment such as computerized test sets, precision gauges, electronic sensors, injector test stands, engine scopes, etc., to assure that tolerance and safety factors have been met.
9. Ability to communicate effectively with outside agencies, supervisors, and lower grade mechanics, both verbally and in writing, to include skills in using computers and office productivity software to organize and convey information or give instruction relevant to maintenance operations.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
10. Must have at least 24 months experience or training leading to an extensive knowledge of the mechanical makeup, operation, and working relationships of complex interconnecting systems, assemblies, and parts for a variety of combat, tactical, commercial, special purpose vehicles, and equipment. Ability to diagnose, repair, overhaul, and modify interconnected complex systems on a variety of combat, tactical, commercial, special purpose vehicles, and equipment. Extensive knowledge of state of the art electrical, electronic, complex hydraulic, pneumatic, and other major non-mechanical systems that have a functional relationship and effect on the operation of major mechanical systems. Extensive knowledge of hydraulic lifting, loading, turning, and positioning systems and their mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic, electrical, and electronic controls. Skill and knowledge to develop or improvise methods, alter parts, and make repairs in the absence of technical guidelines (such as modifying parts to fit and mesh into systems for which the parts were not designed); improvise modifications to equipment to correct recurring malfunctions; and design modifications to meet special test requirements or other special needs.

Do you meet the above qualification standards?
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Do you certify that all of your responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate; and do you accept that if your supporting documentation does not support one or more of your responses to the questionnaire that your application may be rated lower or you may be removed from further consideration?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected