Position Title
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST (RECOVERY)
Agency
Federal Emergency Management Agency
Announcement Number
KR-12757703-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 9, 2025 to Tuesday, July 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. The following questions will be used to determine your eligibility for consideration under this job opportunity announcement. Please select YES to all eligibility question(s) which apply.

If you're uncertain you meet an eligibility, we suggest answering yes. Your application will only be considered under the applicable eligibilities you have selected. If you respond NO to all eligibility questions below, your application will not be considered under this announcement.

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration for EACH selected eligibility. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will not be considered.
1. Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)

Are you a current or former FEMA Stafford Act employee eligible under the Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)?

Current and former FEMA Stafford Act employees who can document 64 or more hours of paid time, per pay period, with no breaks in service* for 78 or more consecutive pay periods since August 1, 2014, are eligible to be considered for this Merit Promotion Job Opportunity Announcement. (*Note: A "break in service" is defined as 3 or more days in non-pay status, except as allowed under 5 CFR § 315.201(b)(3)(ii) for special circumstances such as military deployment, etc.).

To verify eligibility, you must submit: 
"Notice of DRRA Eligibility" provided by OCHCO.  If you believe you're eligible, but have not received your notice, please reach out to the HR Specialist listed in the announcement.
Your FEMA SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your appointment in the excepted service under the Stafford Act.  We recommend attaching a SF-50 which indicates your highest grade and step.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Current FEMA Employee

Are you a current FEMA employee who currently holds OR has previously held a permanent (not time limited) position in the competitive service?

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your permanent competitive status.  Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions.  You may need to submit more than one SF-50.  Your SF-50 must reflect:
Block 24 - Tenure:  1 - Permanent (career) or 2 - Conditional: AND
Block 34 - Position Occupied:  1 - Competitive Service
If you previously held a career or career conditional appointment, you must provide your current SF-50 and your SF-50 which shows competitive status eligibility.
Please do not submit an award SF-50, as it might not indicate your grade level and step.  
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. FEMA Employees Only Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)
Are you a current or former FEMA employee who is considered displaced or surplus (you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction in Force)?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, your most recent performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. How did you hear about this Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) job opportunity?
 A. USAJOBS
 B. FEMA's Social Media (Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Online Job board (Indeed, Zip Recruiter, etc.)
 D. FEMA.gov Careers Website
 E. FEMA Virtual Hiring Event
 F. FEMA On-Site Hiring Event
 G. College/University/Alumni Organization
 H. FEMA Employee Referral
 I. Other
2. Are you a retiree receiving a federal annuity (either military or civilian)? Or have you accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years? (Select all that apply.)
 A. Yes, I'm receiving a military annuity.
 B. Yes, I'm receiving a civilian annuity.
 C. Yes, I've received a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
 D. No, I am not receiving a federal annuity and have not accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
3. Are you a current FEMA employee?
 A. I'm a current FEMA Local Hire Employee
 B. I'm a current FEMA Reservist Employee
 C. I'm a current FEMA CORE Employee
 D. I'm a current FEMA PFT Employee
 E. I'm a current FEMA Senior Executive Service Employee
 F. I'm not a current FEMA Employee
4. Are you currently serving, or have served within the last five years, as a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) employee in the Executive Branch?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Please provide the following information regarding your political appointment(s): 1. Official Title of Position; 2. Type of Appointment (i.e. Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career SES); 3. Name of Agency; 4. Date Position began; and 5. Date Position ended. (NOTE: If you have never held a political appointment, please enter N/A.)
6. Within the past five years, have you received a buyout or payment through the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment Authority (VSIP) when separating from a federal position?
 A. No
 B. Yes, and I understand candidates who are reemployed with the federal government within five years after receiving a buyout or payment under VSIP are required to repay the entire amount of the incentive prior to their onboarding date.
7. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. The following questions will be used for consideration of your application under this job opportunity announcement. Please select yes to all Conditions of Employment that you understand and agree too. Please review your responses for accuracy. Answers cannot be changed after the announcement closes.

1. If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?

Select "Not Applicable" if this question does not apply to you.
 A. Yes
 B. No, but I have an exemption
 C. I am a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, and have NOT registered with the Selective Service System and do NOT have an exemption.
 D. Not Applicable
2. All FEMA employees are subject to 24-hour on-call in the event of an emergency and all Federal employees may be subject to emergency deployment. In the event of an emergency deployment, travel requirements may be extensive in nature (weeks to months), with little advance notice, and may require relocation to emergency sites, some of which are quite austere. The length of deployment may last anywhere from days to months, depending upon the nature of the emergency or disaster.

Every FEMA employee is considered an emergency manager and each employee has regular and recurring emergency management responsibilities, although not every position requires routine deployment to disaster sites. Your emergency management duties may vary depending on the needs of the Agency, your particular skills, and certain personal circumstances. All positions may require irregular work hours, work at locations other than the official duty station, and may include duties other than those specified in the employee's official position description.

Are you able to meet this commitment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

In order to be hired for this position, applicants must undergo and successfully pass a background investigation. This may include a review of financial issues, such as delinquency, child support and/or tax obligations, as well as certain criminal offenses and illegal use of or possession of drugs.

Are you willing to undergo a background investigation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Your responses to the questions below will be used in the evaluation of your qualifications for this position. Your resume and application materials must support the level of experience and/or education you claim in this questionnaire, if after a complete review of your application package, a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications, you may be rated ineligible for this position.
1. Grade 12: Do you have one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the GS-11 level, as described in the vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Please indicate where and when you obtained each of the specialized experience requirements listed in the Qualifications section of this Job Opportunity Announcement. Include in your response: (1) the area of specialized experience; (2) the place of employment; and, (3) the specific dates of employment the experience was gained in MM/DD/YYYY - MM/DD/YYYY format. Your response must be supported by your resume.

Example: Experience in developing and delivering presentations and training; ABC Company; 10/01/2016 - 05/15/2018.
3. From the list below, select the response that best reflects your experience developing individual assistance program policies and guidance. Select all response that apply.
 A. I have reviewed disaster recovery program policies and guidance and advising Federal, State, and/or Local government partners.
 B. I have evaluated individual assistance program policies and guidance based on knowledge of emergency management policy and/or the Stafford Act.
 C. I have developed individual assistance program policies based on the tenets of the Stafford Act, clarifying established individual assistance policies for advising Federal, State and/or local government.
 D. I have implemented individual assistance program policies and guidance based on the tenets of the Stafford Act, revising established individual assistance policies and guidance and advising Federal, State and/or Local government.
 E. None of the above
4. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience acting as a senior advisor on individual assistance activities.
 A. I have written position papers to summarize the strengths and challenges of implementing individual assistance policies.
 B. I have interpreted policy and regulations to guide others in the implementation of individual assistance activities.
 C. I have recommended changes to national policies and procedures based on results of individual assistance activities.
 D. I have recommended changes to individual assistance programs.
 E. I have assisted in the development of legislation to enact major changes to individual assistance programs.
 F. I have served as a mentor on individual assistances activities to less experienced staff members.
 G. I have acted as a senior advisor on Emergency Support Function #6 activities.
 H. None of the above.
5. From the list below, select the response that best describes your experience providing guidance concerning Individual Assistance Programs. Select all answer for which you have experience.
 A. I have synthesized individual assistance data from assessments and reports.
 B. I have used the information from individual assistance data and from assessments to make recommendations on courses of action to my IA partners.
 C. I have supplied individual assistance data and conducted assessments.
 D. I have identified and tracked gaps in federal, state, or local programs associated with individual disaster recovery in an effort to make recommendations on improvement.
 E. None of the above
6. Select all the individual assistance programs you have experience performing and leading from the list below.
 A. Determination for an IA disaster declaration
 B. Implementing a housing assistance program
 C. Implementing assistance program for providing other needs
 D. Disaster Unemployment Assistance
 E. Crisis Counseling Assistance
 F. Mass Care and Emergency Assistance Coordination
 G. Voluntary Agency Coordination
 H. Disaster Recovery Planning
 I. None of the above
7. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience implementing individual assistance or human services activities within an emergency management context.
 A. I have assisted in the execution of individual assistance programs.
 B. I have coordinated with Federal, state, local, tribal, and/or territorial partners to implement approved emergency management assistance programs.
 C. I have been deployed to a disaster to execute Emergency Support Function #6 activities.
 D. I have participated in the complete execution of an individual assistance or human services program after an emergency management event.
 E. I have assisted in analyzing developing emergency management situations to determine the potential for an emergency management declaration at the Federal, state, local, tribal, and/or territorial level.
 F. I have participated in the activation of emergency disaster human services operations at the Federal, state, tribal, or local government level, or as the primary representative of a non-governmental or faith-based organization.
 G. I have participated in Mass Care activities in response to an emergency management event.
 H. I have performed disaster damage assessments for higher level review/approval.
 I. I have provided input to State Plans.
 J. I have provided input to Grant proposals.
 K. None of the above.
8. Please select the communication task(s) you have performed related to assessing the housing needs of disaster survivors:
 A. Interviewing others to gather information.
 B. Writing summary reports
 C. Providing oral briefings to others
 D. Developing written reports of findings
 E. None of the above
9. Select all responses below that will best describe your experience speaking effectively with groups on technical and potentially highly contentious and controversial issues.
 A. Experience as a primary speaker, presenter or conductor of meetings, public forums, workshops, seminars, etc., on major issues on recovery programs.
 B. Experience in delivering oral presentations to inform interested parties with respect to significant or controversial matters regarding disaster recovery planning.
 C. Experience in briefing individuals regarding Recovery programs.
 D. None of the above.
10. Select the statements that describe your communication experience. Choose all that apply.
 A. Communicated with co-workers in a team environment.
 B. Coordinated work with other office personnel.
 C. Responded to telephone and email inquiries.
 D. Directed inquiries to the appropriate parties.
 E. Contacted personnel from internal and external offices to obtain or provide information.
 F. Communicated the results of analyses or other technical reports.
 G. Communicated researched information to management and employees.
 H. Prepared correspondence, memos, or reports.
 I. Managed a correspondence tracking system.
 J. Handled sensitive or confidential information and documents in an appropriate manner.
 K. Developed staffing or personnel documents.
 L. None of the above.
11. This position requires handling a heavy volume of writing assignments under tight deadline pressure. Select the types of written communication you have successfully prepared under tight deadline pressure.
 A. Opinion essays or op-eds
 B. Blog posts
 C. PowerPoint presentations
 D. Verbal testimony
 E. Speeches
 F. Talking Points
 G. News Stories
 H. Questions and Answers
 I. News Releases
 J. Statements
 K. Briefings
 L. Informational Materials concerning policies
 M. Responses to Freedom of Information Act Requests
 N. Congressional Correspondence
 O. None of the above
12. From the list below, select the type(s) of customers with whom you have held briefings or update sessions.
 A. I have assisted in delivering briefings or update sessions with senior executives or organizational leadership.
 B. I have held briefings or update sessions with first-line managers.
 C. I have assisted in delivering briefings or update sessions with technical experts.
 D. I have held briefing or update sessions with co-workers.
 E. I have held briefing or update sessions with employees.
 F. I have assisted in delivering briefings or update sessions with the general public.
 G. I have assisted in delivering briefings or update sessions with elected officials.
 H. I have assisted in delivering briefings or update sessions with leadership from outside organizations.
 I. None of the above.
13. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience developing alternative courses of action to address customer issues.
 A. I have identified alternative courses of action for consideration by a team or first-line supervisor.
 B. I have identified associated costs and benefits for consideration by a team or first-line supervisor.
 C. I have developed alternative courses of action for consideration by customer management.
 D. I have implemented alternative courses of action on behalf of a customer.
 E. None of the above.
14. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) the stakeholder groups you have worked with to represent your organization to external parties.
 A. I have worked with customers to represent my organization to external parties.
 B. I have worked with subordinates (direct reports) to represent my organization to external parties.
 C. I have worked with executives or senior leaders within my organization to represent my organization to external parties.
 D. I have worked with oversight personnel within my organization (e.g., internal legal personnel or Inspector General staff) to represent my organization to external parties.
 E. I have worked with oversight personnel from other organizations (e.g., government regulators or inspectors, external legal personnel) to represent my organization to external parties.
 F. I have worked with interns, contractors, or vendors to represent my organization to external parties.
 G. I have worked with management personnel in other organizations to represent my organization to external parties.
 H. I have worked with executives or senior leaders in other organizations to represent my organization to external parties.
 I. I have worked with union representatives to represent my organization to external parties.
 J. I have worked with public interest groups to represent my organization to external parties.
 K. I have worked with professional organization or societies related to my work to represent my organization to external parties.
 L. None of the above.
15. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience building relationships to represent your organization.
 A. I have communicated with individuals from other organizations to build networks.
 B. I have coordinated with individuals from other organizations to conduct events.
 C. I have coordinated with personnel from other organizations to discuss shared goals and/or promote collaborative work processes.
 D. None of the above.
16. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience representing your organization in briefings, meetings, or conferences.
 A. I have attended inter-organization or inter-agency committee meetings with a senior official.
 B. I have been involved in representing an organization at briefings, meetings, or conferences with other interested parties (e.g., peers, colleagues, members of professional organizations) to share information.
 C. I have assisted in representing an organization at seminars or workshops.
 D. I have served as a member on an internal organization or agency advisory group.
 E. I have I have been involved in delivering technical information or assistance at external conferences, seminars, and/or workshops.
 F. None of the above.
17. Select all of the statements(s) that describe your experience with written or oral communications. Your resume must support the responses that you select below:
 A. I have briefed senior-level federal, state, tribal, or local officials on federal disaster program policy or guidance.
 B. I have briefed senior-level federal, state, tribal, or local officials on the status of program-related disaster field operations.
 C. I have participated in the development of approved federal- or state-level government training courses.
 D. I have delivered approved federal- or state-level government training courses to federal, state, or tribal employees.
 E. I have briefed Congressional representatives or their staff members on incident or disaster recovery operations.
 F. I have briefed contentious audiences or the general public on federal disaster assistance made available as a result of an incident.
 G. I have used analysis of operational issues to prepare findings, reports, or recommendations.
 H. I do not possess any of the experiences listed above.
18. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience supporting the achievement of team goals.
 A. I have volunteered to provide assistance beyond my job duties when help was requested.
 B. I have sought opportunities where I could contribute to achieving team goals.
 C. I have collaborated with team members to complete assignments.
 D. I have provided guidance to others to carry out assignments.
 E. I have provided team updates to customers, management, or executives.
 F. I have worked to minimize or address obstacles to accomplishing team goals.
 G. None of the above.
19. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience providing assistance to coworkers.
 A. I have assisted in the development of training materials or job aids.
 B. I have experience conducted on-the-job training.
 C. I have served as a mentor or coach.
 D. I have volunteered to assist coworkers in the completion of their task(s).
 E. I have been assigned to assist coworkers in the completion of their task(s).
 F. None of the above.
20. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience working with others to achieve team goals.
 A. I have coordinated assignments for project team members based on factors such as project interests, strengths, and competing workloads.
 B. I have coordinated project team members in preparing communication materials.
 C. I have promoted cooperation among project team members from various backgrounds and/or organizations.
 D. I have assisted one or more work team members by completing their tasks when they had a heavy workload.
 E. I have volunteered for assignments during team meetings.
 F. None of the above.
21. Please take this opportunity to review your question responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you understand this statement, have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected