Position Title
Wildland Firefighter (Assistant Engine Captain) - Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Bureau of Land Management
Announcement Number
FADHA-25-12750857-ARE Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, June 26, 2025 to Friday, July 11, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.
 
2. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
3. Career Transition Assistance Plan:  Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced or surplused from the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which I have been or will be separated; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.   
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan: Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am currently in a position at the same grade level or higher than the position being announced; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Buffalo, WY
 B. Casper, WY
 C. Newcastle, WY
 D. Rawlins, WY
 E. Rock Springs, WY
 F. Worland, WY
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
5
6
7
Survey Questions
1. My resume contains hours worked per week for each season and position held. For example, 1 year of experience is equivalent to 12 months at 40 hours per week (full-time). Part-time hours are prorated. I understand that I will not receive any credit for a position listed that does not include hours worked per week.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. My resume contains the beginning and ending dates (month/year to month/year) and grade level (if federal service) for each period of work experience/employment. I understand failure to adequately include this information may affect my qualification determination for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I consent to the release of information about my ability and fitness for Federal employment by employers, schools, law enforcement agencies, and other individuals and organizations to investigators, human resource specialists, and other authorized employees or representatives of the Federal Government. I understand that for some other sources of information, a separate specific release may be needed, and I may be contacted for such a release at a later date.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I have read the "How to Apply" & "Required Documents" sections and understand that failure to submit any required documents may result in my being found not qualified.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I understand that additional selections may be made from this vacancy, within the same geographical area, by other bureaus from within the DOI, through shared recruiting activities, and my application may be shown to multiple hiring offices. Additional selections for similar positions across the entire Department of the Interior within the local commuting area(s) identified in this vacancy announcement may be made. By applying, I agree to have my application shared with any interested selecting official(s) within the DOI. There is no option to opt-out as my information will not be shared with other hiring agencies outside of the DOI. Applying to this announcement does not replace the need to apply to other job opportunity announcements for which you wish to receive consideration.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. I understand that I must ensure my resume, supporting documents (SF-50 or other official document to verify date of birth), transcripts, fire qualifications (IQCS), etc., are not password protected or contain redacted information that could make my application package ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported in your resume and supporting documents.
1. I possess a valid State driver's license.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I possess a commercial driver's license (CDL).

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. As previously indicated, this position is a Primary position. In accordance with Public Law 107-27, applicants must meet age and/or service requirements. The maximum entry age is the date immediately preceding your 37th birthday. Select the statement that best describes how you meet the age and/or service requirements.
 A. I am under 37 years of age.
 B. I am 37 years of age or older AND I am currently serving and/or have previously served in a Federal civilian position covered by special fire-fighter retirement provisions, including early or mandatory retirement. I will provide a copy of my most recent SF50 and/or prior SF50s showing that I have been in a primary covered position, as instructed in the vacancy announcement.
 C. I am a preference eligible veteran and will submit a DD-214 or other related documentation.
 D. None of the above
4. I have held or currently hold the NWCG qualification Firefighter Type 1 (FFT1) or higher AND the S-290 "Intermediate Fire Behavior" course. I will provide a copy of my IQCS master record or equivalent documentation as instructed in the vacancy announcement.

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I qualify for the GS-5 level because:
 A. I have one year of specialized experience, equivalent to GS-4 in the Federal service. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience to qualify for this position.
 B. I have a 4-year course of study above high school in an accredited college or university, leading to a bachelors degree with a major study in Wildland Fire Science, Wildland Fire Training, Wildland Fire Technology or other related fields which included 24 semester hours of coursework such as forestry, range management or conservation, natural resources (except marine fisheries and oceanography). I will provide a copy of my college transcript.
 C. I have an equivalent combination of specialized experience and education as described in the vacancy announcement to qualify for this position. I will provide a copy of my college transcript.
 D. I do not meet any of the above responses.
6. I qualify for the GS-06 because I have one year of specialized wildland fire experience equivalent to the GS-05 level in the Federal service. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience needed to qualify for this position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. I qualify for the GS-07 because I have one year of specialized wildland fire experience equivalent to the GS-06 level in the Federal service. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience needed to qualify for this position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Indicate your level of experience, education, or training as it relates to your knowledge of strategies, tactics and suppression methods used in containment and control of wildfires.

 A. I am considered an expert in performing these tasks; or I have supervised performance of these tasks or am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing these tasks because of my experience.
 B. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of a job. I have performed them independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 C. I have performed these tasks on the job. My work on these tasks was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have had education or training in how to perform this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 E. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
9. I have wildland firefighting experience in the following areas:
 A. Performing work as an Initial Attack firefighter in grass/shrub fuel models.
 B. Performing work as an Initial Attack firefighter in timber/slash fuel models.
 C. Performing Minimal Impact Suppression Tactics (MIST) on a wildland fire incident.
 D. Performing work as an Initial Attack firefighter in more than one geographic area of the United States.
 E. Performing work as an Initial Attack firefighter in many different geographic areas and fuel types around the United States.
 F. None of the above.
10. Identify the work you have been responsible for in fighting wildland fires:
 A. Evaluate rapidly changing fire circumstances.
 B. Determine when/if additional forces may be needed.
 C. Determine when circumstances warrant withdrawal of crew to a safe location.
 D. Perform fire line activities such as holding/patrol/mop-up operations.
 E. Perform hazardous tree removal.
 F. Instruct and direct a crew in fire-fighting operations.
 G. Distribute and control work assignments.
 H. Monitor work in progress.
 I. Observe, correct and evaluate crew skills.
 J. Serve as a crew boss.
 K. Serve as an Engine Module Supervisor.
 L. Explain fire behavior characteristics, safety regulations and work procedures.
 M. Communicate needs to higher-level personnel.
 N. Report on emergency conditions at field locations.
 O. Draft wildland fire situation analyses.
 P. Recommend alternative strategies for firefighting taking into consideration the impact of social, economic, biological, and other factors.
 Q. Consider the effects of humidity, temperature, wind, topography, slope, fuels and fuel moisture in order to attack the fire, build fire line and manage wildland fire.
 R. None of the above.
11. I have performed the following wildland firefighting tasks.
 A. Fire ignition
 B. Fire suppression
 C. Monitoring
 D. Holding
 E. Mop-up
 F. Operate a 4-wheel drive vehicle.
 G. Collect fire weather observations.
 H. None of the above.
12. Please select all of the Wildland Fire crews you have worked on.
 A. Helitack
 B. Prescribed burning/Fuels
 C. Prevention
 D. Fire/Hand
 E. Engine
 F. Hot Shot
 G. Fire Use
 H. Lookout
 I. Smokejumper
 J. None of the above
13. Indicate your level of experience, education, or training as it relates to operations and maintenance of specialized equipment used to respond to wildland and prescribed fire situations.

 A. I am considered an expert in operations and maintenance of specialized wildland fire equipment.
 B. I have performed operations and maintenance of specialized wildland fire equipment as a regular part of a job and independently without supervision.
 C. I have performed operations and maintenance of specialized wildland fire equipment on the job. I was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have had education or training in operations and maintenance of specialized wildland fire equipment but have not yet performed it on the job.
 E. I have not had education, training, or experience in operations and maintenance of specialized wildland fire equipment.
14. I have performed the following tasks when responding to wildland fire incidents.
 A. Collect fire weather data.
 B. Map projects.
 C. Maintain records.
 D. Map projects taking into account topography.
 E. Map projects taking into account range/forest types.
 F. Map projects taking into account fuel types.
 G. Map projects taking into account fire behavior.
 H. None of the above.
15. I have experience in leading personnel in a wildland environment.

 A. Yes
 B. No
16. Select the one statement that best describes your ability to communicate technical information:

 A. I have not presented or provided technical or non-technical information.
 B. I have presented or provided only non-technical information to persons on the job.
 C. I have made presentations or provided technical information on the job to supervisors, coworkers, and others.
 D. I have been acknowledged for my ability to present or provide technical and non-technical information to a variety of audiences.
17. Select all the statements from below that best describe the type of work you have led:
 A. I have explained team goals and objectives to assigned team members and assisted team members in organizing to accomplish work.
 B. I have coached, facilitated, solved work problems, and participated in the work of the team.
 C. I have provided information to the supervisor on performance of the team and individuals.
 D. I have communicated assignments, milestones, and deadlines to the team and individuals based on supervisor`s instructions.
 E. I have observed training needs and relay training needs and requests to supervisor.
 F. I have informed supervisor of attendance and behavioral problems.
 G. I have relayed requests for resources and supplies.
 H. I have no experience in team leader duties.
18. Select the statement that best describes your experience and/or education in analyzing and predicting fire behavior:

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in this field.
 B. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee.
 E. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in the performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
19. From the following list select all the areas you have experience working in.
 A. Organize fire caches; maintain inventory and accountability for property, equipment and personnel for the most efficient response.
 B. Evaluate equipment and personnel needs and recommend equipment and personnel funding requests.
 C. Serve as an instructor for a variety of fire and aviation related training courses.
 D. Develop and revise annual operating plans, annual budget request and fire management plan.
 E. Research fire literature and provide applicable information for fire management programs.
 F. Assist in field survey efforts such as archeology, vegetation surveys, resource surveys and data analysis.
 G. Assist in identification of grasses, herbs, shrubs, and trees and prepare herbarium specimens and record habitat and plant association data.
 H. Use computer models to store, update and analyze fire behavior and other monitoring data.
 I. Use specialized fire information databases and programs.
 J. None of the above.
20. Indicate the level that best describes your experience providing wildland fire suppression or prescribed fire training and guidance to firefighters.

 A. I have informally explained wildland fire safety regulations and safe techniques for wildland firefighting to fire team members.
 B. I have explained fire behavior characteristics and techniques for wildland firefighting and suppression as a part of my job.
 C. I have served as an instructor for a variety of fire and aviation related training courses.
 D. None of the above.
21. I have participated and led an arduous physical fitness program ensuring that compliance with physical training requirements are met.

 A. Yes
 B. No
22. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected