Position Title
Supervisory Immigration Officer
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12765323-FDSEB5-IMP-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 21, 2025 to Wednesday, July 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current DHS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who is in a permanent position that is in the competitive service (see block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type)?

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who has held, or currently holds, a permanent position in the competitive service (see block #34 of your SF-50) with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?  

Note: If your position referenced above is not on the GS pay scale, your pay must be at or above the representative rate (step 04) of the full performance level of this position. 

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. I acknowledge the following conditions if I choose to submit my resume through the USAJOBS Resume Builder:
I understand that resumes submitted through USAJOBS Resume Builder are converted to a PDF format when they are transmitted to USA Staffing from the USAJOBS applicant interface and additional spaces/page gaps are added to resumes during the Resume Builder conversion process;
Based on the above conditions, I understand that USCIS strongly encourages me to save my resume to a PDF document and upload the PDF document instead of submitting my resume created through Resume Builder;
I understand that USCIS' human resources will only review the first 5 pages of my resume to determine eligibility/qualifications for this position;
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I have met this requirement for consideration.

(Note: Additional guidance regarding this requirement is available within the How to Submit Your Resume section of the USCIS Resume Requirement FAQs.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 D. No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.
3. I acknowledge that this position is NOT remote and that if selected, I will be expected to report to the duty station listed within the announcement text.
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I understand this requirement.
By answering NO to this question, I am asking to be removed from further consideration for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. GS-14 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
2. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
3. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the  GS-14. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the  GS-13 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-14 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
The following section contains a multitude of question types. If you see a radio button, you can only select one response. If you see a checkbox, you may select all that apply.
4. Select the activities you have performed pertaining to immigration fraud.
 A. I analyzed operational aspects of anti-fraud and law enforcement checks (e.g., policies, procedures, systems).
 B. I gathered and organized records in databases to assist Immigration Officers in creating reports.
 C. I accessed law enforcement and commercial databases to extract information for background checks as part of immigration fraud detection.
 D. I participated in special groups (e.g., inter-agency or intra-agency task forces) to enhance U.S. national security and the integrity of the legal immigration system.
 E. None of the above
5. Which activities have you performed related to detecting immigration fraud?
 A. Accessed Immigration data systems for research (e.g. NCIC, TECS, etc.).
 B. Verified and evaluated Immigration Benefit Applications.
 C. Conducted interviews.
 D. Identified common fraud patterns and trends.
 E. None of the above.
6. Select the tasks you have performed related to conducting security checks for immigration benefit applications.
 A. I used government systems to initiate security checks in accordance with all applicable laws and policies.
 B. I ensured that all records and property were maintained and destroyed in accordance with security requirements.
 C. I identified files with national security threats and public safety issues and prioritized them for security checks.
 D. I conducted file searches for aliases.
 E. I conducted file searches for criminal behavior.
 F. I conducted file searches for dates of birth.
 G. None of the above.
7. Which activities have you performed pertaining to the prevention of immigration fraud?
 A. Analyzed anti-fraud and law enforcement check policies, procedures, and systems.
 B. Assisted Immigration officers and Specialists in data collection.
 C. Generated reports and documented trends in immigration fraud.
 D. Accessed data systems to extract information pertinent to background check protocols.
 E. Participated in inter-agency and/or intra-agency task forces to enhance U.S. national security and the integrity of the legal immigration system.
 F. Detected red-flags pertaining to immigration fraud while reviewing case files.
 G. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
8. Have you analyzed the impact of immigration-related policies and practices on all levels of government (i.e., national, state, and local)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Select the activities you've performed that are related to building effective partnerships to increase knowledge of programs that support immigration.
 A. I have worked with colleagues within my immediate organization (e.g. Field Office, District Office) to solve problems and improve processes.
 B. I have worked with senior management staff within my Region or similar organization to improve outreach and communication to non-governmental agencies.
 C. I have partnered with other agency staff and non-governmental agencies to improve education, communication, and understanding of immigration programs and processes.
 D. I have led groups of colleagues within USCIS in efforts to improve education, communication, and understanding of USCIS programs and processes with individuals, groups, and organizations outside of USCIS.
 E. None of the above.
10. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience interacting with intelligence agencies?
 A. I analyzed intelligence received indirectly and incorporated it into decision-making.
 B. I have been a point of contact for intelligence agencies.
 C. I routinely cultivated relationships with intelligence agencies to promote inter-agency collaboration.
 D. I have no experience, training, or education related to interacting with intelligence agencies.
 E. I completed education and/or training related to interacting with intelligence agencies, but do not have professional experience.
11. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience interacting with law enforcement entities?
 A. I analyzed law enforcement information received indirectly and incorporated it into decision-making.
 B. I have been a point of contact for law enforcement entities.
 C. I cultivated relationships with law enforcement entities to promote inter-agency collaboration.
 D. I have no experience, training, or education related to interacting with law enforcement entities.
 E. I completed education and/or training related to interacting with law enforcement entities, but do not have professional experience.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
12. Have you ever evaluated the work performance of subordinates?
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Select your highest achievement in influencing and leading others to accomplish your agency's or organization's priorities.
 A. I have moved important initiatives forward because I understand the reality of working within organizational politics.
 B. I have gained employee commitment to an organizations’ priorities by clearly communicating my expectations and holding employees accountable to these expectations.
 C. I have guided a team or direct reports through a significant organizational change by garnering the team’s trust, by carefully listening to their concerns, then relaying their concerns to higher management, and ultimately, working with higher management to come to a mutually beneficial resolution.
 D. I have promoted interdependency by allowing my subordinates a certain amount of autonomy so that they may develop creative and innovative strategies or solutions within the team dynamic.
 E. I have been successful in leading a team to accomplish organizational priorities because I effectively communicate my vision to them and share my enthusiasm for it.
 F. None of these answers apply.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
14. Do you have experience independently advising management on program changes or developments?
 A. Yes
 B. No
15. I have set stretch goals (e.g., goals that are beyond current capabilities) for employees that contain measurable milestones to help them define a career path.
 A. True
 B. False
16. What level of experience best describes your ability to oversee the drafting of briefings, reports, and options papers on immigration policies?
 A. I have led a team or supervised employees who draft briefings and other reports on immigration policies.
 B. I have served as a subject matter expert, that is, a person with bona fide expert knowledge about employment immigration policy, who has drafted options papers, briefings, “one-pagers,” or reports on immigration policies for my supervisor’s review and approval.
 C. I do not have any professional experience in drafting options papers, briefings, “one-pagers,” or reports on immigration policies.
17. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience developing long-range strategic plans (i.e. 3-5 years)?
 A. I have not had experience, education, or training related to strategic planning.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to strategic planning, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I compiled data related to strategic planning for analysis by others.
 D. I analyzed data to inform strategic planning discussions by leadership.
 E. I developed a long-term strategic plan and goals for executive leadership approval.
18. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience developing action plans to achieve goals?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to developing action plans to achieve goals.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to developing action plans to achieve goals, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I reviewed office goals for alignment with the organizational mission.
 D. I created action plans to implement and meet goals across program areas.
 E. I participated in developing action items to support establishing goals for a specific program area.
 F. I led others in the development of actions items to support specific goals in a program areas.
19. If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "pass," "satisfactory," or better?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. I am a Federal employee but have not received a performance rating.
 D. Not applicable. I am not a Federal employee.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
20. Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected