Position Title
SUPERVISORY BORDER PATROL AGENT (SUPERVISORY ASSISTANT CHIEF)
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
USBP-IMP-12822218-JRB Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 30, 2025 to Thursday, November 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.


1.
Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 Yes
 No


3.
Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of GS-14?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Federal employees who competed for and currently hold, or have previously held, a permanent position of GS-14 (or equivalent) or higher, may be referred for selection without competition under our agency promotion procedures. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-11 position with promotion potential to the GS-13.  The progression is GS-11, GS-12, and GS-13.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-13.
Your current position is a GS-13. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-14 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-13.
Your current position is a GS-13. You previously held a GS-14 position on a permanent basis.  GS-14 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.


2.
Are you proficient and able to communicate in the Spanish language?
 Yes
 No


3.
All newly appointed, second level supervisors (managers) are required to complete the mandatory leadership training. The Office of Training and Development will schedule eligible supervisors (managers) to attend this training within the first 90 days of appointment. All newly appointed, second level supervisors shall attain the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to successfully perform their supervisory responsibilities by completing required leadership training in accordance with agency policy.

NOTE: This training may be waived if previously completed.

Do you acknowledge that you have read and understand the above requirement, including current or former second level supervisors who have previously completed the mandatory training and will not be required to retake the course?
 Yes
 No


4.
This position requires the ability to operate a Government Owned Vehicle. Do you have a valid, non-restricted driver's license or will you be able to obtain a valid, non-restricted driver's license before the time of appointment?
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 Yes
 No


6.
I understand that if selected for this position, I will be on a time-limited temporary promotion or reassignment and may be returned to my permanent or a similar position prior to the not-to-exceed date.
 Yes
 No


7.
Have you engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, holding facility, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution as defined in 42 U.S.C. § 1997?
 Yes
 No


8.
Have you been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or where the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse, or have you been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in such activity?
 Yes
 No


9.
Conviction under Federal, State, or Tribal Court of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or child is disqualifying. An intimate partner means, with respect to a person, the spouse of the person, a former spouse of the person, an individual who is a parent of a child of the person, an individual who cohabitates or has cohabited with the person. Have you ever been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or a child?
 Yes
 No


10.
Are you the subject of any Federal, State, or Tribal court-ordered restraining (protection) order for domestic abuse, including harassing, stalking, or threatening an intimate partner or a child?
 Yes
 No


11.
I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.
The most current version of the Document Type labeled "resume" is the only document that will be considered and it is your responsibility to tailor your resume to explicitly detail how your experience fulfills the general/specialized experience requirements outlined in this job announcement otherwise you could be found not qualified.
Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Be two pages or less in length
Include full legal name
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.


12.
There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 level.
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-14 grade level (or equivalent).
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.


13.
U.S. Border Patrol Headquarters Mobility Agreement

Instruction: If selected for this position, you will be subject to a Mobility Agreement. Please review the terms of the USBP Mobility Agreement provided below and acknowledge your understanding and acceptance of this requirement by entering your name in the response/text field.

I understand that by accepting this GS-1896-15 or GS-14 position at U.S. Border Patrol (USBP) Headquarters (HQ) in Washington, D.C., I am required to sign a mobility agreement. I agree to the following terms and conditions for the duration of my tour:

1. My mobility is a condition of employment for this position, and I accept, without objection, the decision of U.S. Border Patrol regarding my mobility and reassignments. This means I can be reassigned to another duty station at the agency's discretion within and outside the continental United States, at any time during the duration of my USBP HQ assignment as a GS-1896-15.

2. I understand that the tour length for this position is up to five years (or as otherwise specified in the vacancy announcement).

3. I understand that this mobility agreement covers two types of mobility:
a. Organizational Mobility: Organizational mobility refers to a new assignment within the same commuting area but in a different program office or command level.
b. Geographic Mobility: Geographic mobility refers to a relocation outside the commuting area.

4. I accept that organizational and geographical reassignments are made for career development purposes or for other reasons determined to be in the best interest of the U.S. Border Patrol.

5. Generally, I will be notified 90 days in advance, if I will be geographically relocated. However, mission essential requirements may dictate shorter notice.

6. I understand that U.S. Border Patrol does not guarantee that I will be reassigned at the end of the tour as there are many factors involved in the reassignment process including fiscal constraints and other operational needs.

7. Relocation expenses authorized in conjunction with my management directed reassignment will be paid by U.S. Border Patrol in accordance with the Federal Travel Regulations, 41 C.F.R. Part 301.

8. I understand that a management-directed reassignment does not exclude me from being eligible to submit a request under the Medical Reassignment, Spousal Reassignment and Employee-Initiated hardship reassignment programs. I must notify, U.S. Border Patrol Chief through my direct supervisor, in writing, of any hardship that may affect my ability to comply with any part of this mobility agreement. The U.S. Border Patrol Chief will make the final determination on the submitted hardship request.

9. I understand if I decline a reassignment under this Mobility Agreement, I will be subject to removal under adverse action procedures from Federal employment.

10. I understand that under OPM guidance, I would not be eligible for Discontinued Service Retirement and severance pay if I accept a reassignment under this Mobility Agreement and subsequently decline a future management-directed reassignment under this Mobility Agreement.


By entering my name below for this Mobility Agreement, I agree to the terms and conditions above and that I may be permanently reassignments to a different duty station throughout my tenure, based on the needs of U.S. Border Patrol.


Assessment 1
 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙