Position Title
Health Systems Specialist
Agency
Veterans Affairs, Inspector General
Announcement Number
25-VAOIG-12803920 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 18, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current VA or VAOIG employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current VA or VAOIG employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current VA or VAOIG employee serving on a VRA appointment
Current VA or VAOIG employee serving in an excepted service position under a Title 38 Interchange position on a permanent basis
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current VA or VAOIG employee who currently holds (or have you previously held) a position on a permanent basis in the competitive service or under a Title 38 Interchange position equal to the the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. San Diego, CA
 B. Denver, CO
 C. Washington, DC
 D. Baltimore, MD
 E. Kansas City, MO
 F. Trenton, NJ
 G. Dallas, TX
 H. Seattle, WA
 I. Spokane, WA
2. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Would you like the opportunity to be considered for similar positions that require the same knowledge, skills and abilities?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
5. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
7. Please choose one of the following so that we may determine your eligibility.
 A. I am a current permanent VA or VAOIG employee with competitive status.
 B. I am a VA or VAOIG employee currently serving on a Veterans' Recruitment Appointment (VRA).
 C. I am eligible for the Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP).
 D. I do not meet any of the above eligibility criteria.
Performance Appraisal
1. As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal which includes the final rating. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so. If you do not provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration. Type "yes" in the text box below if you are providing a performance appraisal meeting the above requirements with your application. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application, please provide a reason in the text box below. (This is required of all applicants regardless of prior federal service. "N/A" is not considered an acceptable response.)
Assessment 1
Specialized experience for the GS-13 is one year of experience at the GS-12 level, or equivalent, that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position which includes:
- Experience providing clinical healthcare services requiring interpretation of various medical regulation and directives; AND
- Experience conducting healthcare audits, inspections, or program evaluations.

OR

Special Provision for In-service Placement:
Successful completion of an agency-sponsored on-the-job training program may be substituted for qualifying experience, provided it included a formal individualized training plan. Such a training program must have been conducted in an operating health care system and included:
Assignments providing a knowledge of basic health system administration philosophies, practices, and procedures, and basic Government administrative policies and requirements;
Practical assignments providing an opportunity to apply health system administration skills and principles (as the individual progresses, work assignments must be characteristic of the grade level to which he or she is assigned); and
Oversight by an experienced health system administrator with periodic evaluation of the individual's progress and appropriate adjustment of the training program.
1. Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 A. I have one full year or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-12 level as described above.
 B. I have successfully completed an agency-sponsored on-the-job training program as described above.
 C. I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.
2. Select all professional degrees and related clinical licenses that you have: (You are highly encouraged to submit a copy of your license(s) when you apply.)
 A. Bachelors of Science in Nursing (BSN)
 B. Master of Science in Nursing (MSN)
 C. Registered Nurse (RN)
 D. Nurse Practitioner (NP)
 E. Master of Social Work (MSW)
 F. Physician Assistant (PA)
 G. Doctor of Pharmacy (Pharm.D.)
 H. Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.)
 I. None of the above
3. What is your experience applying concepts, principles, and techniques of quality improvement and health care program evaluations?
 A. I have experience in a broad range of quality improvement and health care program inspections and evaluations.
 B. I have conducted research and analysis of issues and identified potential quality management and health care program problems in preparation for project development.
 C. I have designed projects to assess health care program issues and evaluated quality improvement and health care issues.
 D. I have not had experience in performing this type of work.
4. I have experience developing methods to evaluate health care quality issues.
 A. True
 B. False
5. Please describe where in your resume this experience is documented; please list the organization(s) where you obtained this experience and the corresponding dates. (limit 250 characters)
6. Which of the following clinical settings have you had hands-on clinical experience?
 A. Acute Care (Medical/Surgical)
 B. Intensive/Critical Care Unit
 C. Emergency Department
 D. Dialysis Unit
 E. Mental Health Services
 F. Primary Care
 G. Specialty Care Clinic (Pain management, OEF/OIF, women’s health, surgery clinics)
 H. Operating Rooms /Ambulatory Surgery Centers
 I. Allied Health (OT, PT, RT, dietetics, dental, etc.)
 J. Rehabilitation Center / Long Term Care Unit / Community Living Center
 K. None of the above.
7. What type of clinical work have you done on a regular and recurring basis?
 A. Assessed/evaluated patients’ clinical health status
 B. Provided clinical care, including medication administration and/or nursing treatments in a clinic, hospital, or long-term care setting
 C. Performed or assisted with clinical or invasive procedures or surgeries
 D. Triaged patients requiring urgent or emergent care
 E. Reviewed medical records for quality improvement
 F. Provided Mental Health treatment or counseling
 G. Prepared/dispensed and educated patients on medications in a clinic or hospital-based pharmacy.
 H. Ordered diagnostic tests and medications to treat patients’ assessed condition(s).
 I. None of the above
8. Please list where this experience can be found in your resume. (limit 250 characters)
9. In which of the following administrative responsibilities do you have experience?
 A. Supervising and providing direction to certified nursing assistants.
 B. Supervising and providing direction to licensed practical nurses.
 C. Supervising and providing direction to registered nurses.
 D. Supervising clinical care at the level of a clinic, nursing unit, or clinical department.
 E. Supervising clinical care and administrative activities of a hospital.
 F. Conducting clinical education programs
 G. None of the above
10. Which of the following describes the work you have performed as a regular part of your job duties?
 A. Direct, manage, and provide clinical feedback to registered nurses and/or other clinicians
 B. Provide clinical interventions and monitor patient responses to clinical interventions
 C. None of the above
11. Select the task that you have performed when working with data:
 A. Data entry
 B. Review and manually analyze raw data on spreadsheet
 C. Export to excel to filter results on spreadsheet
 D. Performed statistical analysis using statistical software
 E. Provide recommendations for program process improvement
 F. None of the above
12. Please describe where in your resume this experience is documented; please list the organization(s) where you obtained this experience and the corresponding dates. (limit 250 characters)
13. Please select all the tasks which you have performed on assigned projects.
 A. Monitored team activities
 B. Provided guidance to team members
 C. Ensured objectives are met within assigned timeframe and resources
 D. Recommended alternative actions and revisions
 E. Identified potential health care program problem areas
 F. Designed projects to assess problematic issues
 G. Conducted independent research and analysis of issues for project development
 H. Planned and scheduled project briefings
 I. Provided briefings and project updates verbally to an executive level committee or senior leadership.
 J. Provided written briefing or report to an executive level committee or senior leadership.
 K. None of the above.
14. Please select all the tasks that you have experienced in planning a quality improvement project.
 A. Used automated information systems to extract information in formats that are useful for site inspection and evaluation.
 B. Used information obtained in various discussions and records reviews to identify clinical care or leadership issues.
 C. Developed review strategies to evaluate health care program issues.
 D. None of the above
15. What is your highest level of experience in project management?
 A. I have experience in managing the development of healthcare quality inspections or evaluations.
 B. I have oriented, trained, and led a team of inspectors for health care inspections and evaluations.
 C. I have participated in the design of data collection instruments that include electronic health records review guide, tools, and interview questionnaires.
 D. I have worked with team leaders in the planning and scheduling of project briefings and training sessions.
 E. None of the above
16. Select the answer that best describes your experience working on team projects.
 A. I have had primary responsibility for team projects including team member direction, coordination, monitoring of progress, and report writing.
 B. I have participated in team projects where I collected data and evaluated results for assigned review components.
 C. I have participated on team projects by carrying out administrative responsibilities.
 D. I do not have experience working on team projects.
17. Please select all that apply in describing your experience in evaluating and inspecting health care programs and activities.
 A. Designed data collection instruments to be used in electronic health record reviews or for documenting information from respondents.
 B. Planned, coordinated and/or conducted pre-inspection research.
 C. Organized review findings to facilitate comprehensive analysis of issues.
 D. Developed inspection/evaluation plans that address problems in health care.
 E. Ensured reviews, inspections, and program evaluations were properly carried out and findings and recommendations stated in reports were adequately supported.
 F. Evaluated quantitative and qualitative information obtained during inspections to ensure a comprehensive analysis of issues.
 G. None of the above.
18. Select the statements that best describe your written communication experience.
 A. I have written and edited healthcare-related authoritative or research documents for use or approval by, executive-level management.
 B. I have written and edited healthcare delivery system - related evaluation, inspection, or quality improvement reports for review and/or approval by executive-level management.
 C. I have critiqued written documents to ensure use of correct grammar and inclusion of fully supported conclusions and recommendations.
 D. I have explained and justified decisions, conclusions, findings, and recommendations to executive level management.
 E. I have developed training materials for health care issues.
 F. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
19. Have you integrated inspection data and information in a clear, well-organized, and concise written report?
 A. Yes
 B. No
20. Please list the type of reports and/or briefings you have written as the primary author:
 A. Congressional Reports
 B. National Review Reports
 C. Hotline Reports
 D. Hospital or Clinic Inspection Reports
 E. Executive Reports
 F. White Papers
 G. None of the above
21. Please describe where in your resume this experience is documented; please list the organization(s) where you obtained this experience and the corresponding dates. (limit 250 characters)
22. Please list the type of reports for which you have presented orally:
 A. Congressional Reports
 B. National Review Reports
 C. Hotline Reports
 D. Hospital and Clinic Inspection Reports
 E. Executive Reports
 F. White Papers
 G. None of the above
23. Please describe where in your resume this experience is documented; please list the organization(s) where you obtained this experience and the corresponding dates. (limit 250 characters)
24. Select the experience you have in oral communication.
 A. I have delivered clear, concise, logical, accurate, and coherent presentations to executive-level management.
 B. I have communicated project strategies, goals, or priorities in oral presentations to management on a regular basis.
 C. I have explained and justified decisions, conclusions, findings and recommendations to executive-level management.
 D. I have provided training on healthcare topics.
 E. None of the above
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected