Position Title
Public Utilities Specialist
Agency
Bonneville Power Administration
Announcement Number
25-BPA-46915-12777579-DOE Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 12, 2025 to Sunday, September 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current career/career-conditional federal employee at the Department of Energy applying for a PROMOTION to a position with a higher grade/pay band or higher promotion potential than you previously held on a permanent basis?

Note: also select "Yes" if applying for a change-to-lower grade (CTLG) to a position with higher promotion potential than you previously held on a permanent basis.

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current career/career-conditional federal employee at the Department of Energy applying for a REASSIGNMENT, CHANGE-TO-LOWER GRADE, or REPROMOTION and you currently or previously held a position with the same grade/pay band or higher and the same or higher promotion potential on a permanent basis?

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I understand that I must select "Yes" to at least one of the eligibility questions to be considered for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Do any of your relatives work for the agency to which you are applying? If so, please list any applicable names below. Please enter N/A in the text box, if not Applicable. (Include: father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, and half sister).
2. Instructions: To provide the hiring manager an opportunity to consider your accomplishments, you may submit/attach copies of your performance appraisals and/or incentive award justification as part of your application by uploading these documents into USA Staffing.


All current Federal employees must have at least a fully successful or equivalent performance rating or higher, to be considered for competitive placement. Competitive Federal employees who have a current unacceptable performance rating will be excluded from consideration.
 A. I am a current Federal employee, my last performance rating was fully successful (meets expectations) or equivalent, or higher.
 B. I am a current Federal employee; my last performance rating was unacceptable (fails to meet expectations).
 C. I am a new Federal employee and have not received a performance rating as of the date of this application.
 D. I am not a Federal employee; however, I will consider attaching my recent performance appraisal from my employer for consideration.
 E. I am not a Federal employee, and I do not have any performance documentation to submit for consideration.
3. Have you received awards or been recognized as part of your annual performance appraisal for work that was based on one or more of the competencies described in this vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five (5) years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Please list the title, agency and dates of the appointments
Executive Order 14170
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
Deferred Resignation Program
1. Are you a Department of Energy employee who accepted the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) either through OPM's Fork in the Road or through DOE's DRP?

 A. Yes, I am a DOE employee who accepted the DRP through resignation or retirement.
 B. No, I am not a DOE DRP participant.
2. Are you a Department of Energy employee who is currently on Administrative Leave?
 A. Yes, I am a DOE employee who is currently on Administrative Leave
 B. No, I am not a DOE employee who is currently on Administrative Leave.
Assessment 1
1. Choose one answer that best describes your experience.

 A. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service performing work appropriate to the position advertised in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected