Position Title
Interdisciplinary
Agency
Defense Health Agency
Announcement Number
HQKF9395464304 Opens in new window
Open Period
Saturday, July 26, 2025 to Friday, August 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
11
12
13
2. Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0401 - General Natural Resources Management And Biological Sciences
 B. 0415 - Toxicology
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Interdisciplinary position with Defense Health Agency. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1. Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Interdisciplinary/Biologist/Toxicologist at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 A. I have a bachelor?s degree (or higher degree) in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 B. I have a combination of education and experience which includes courses equivalent to a major, as shown in A. above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 C. I do not possess the education described above.
2. Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Interdisciplinary/Biologist/Toxicologist at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 A. I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in toxicology; or an appropriate discipline of the biological, medical, or veterinary sciences that included at least 30 semester hours in chemistry, biochemistry, or physiology, and 12 semester hours in toxicology. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 B. I have a combination of education and experience which includes courses equivalent to a major, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 C. I do not possess the education described above.
3. Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Interdisciplinary/Biologist/Toxicologist at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 A. I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 B. I have a combination of education and experience which includes courses equivalent to a major, as shown in A. above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 C. I do not possess the education described above.
4. Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an interdisciplinary Biologist/Toxicologist at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service which includes: Assisting conducting toxicology or biological assessments; providing assistance on the management of programs in areas such as biological or toxicological studies; and ensure compliance with laws and regulations dealing with areas such as hazardous, toxic materials, and/or waste management.
 B. I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position, such as Biological Science, Physical Science, or a directly-related field of study. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 C. I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least two years of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required three years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the second year (total graduate semester hours minus 36) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 D. I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 E. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
5. Select the one statement below that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Interdisciplinary/Biologist/Toxicologist, at the next lower grade level of GS-12 or higher equivalency.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes evaluating/analyzing toxicological and/or biological data; conducting scientific studies in the areas of pharmacology, biology, and/or toxicology; and assisting in the development of in vitro and/or in vivo test designs.
 B. My experience is not reflected in the above statement
6. Select the one statement below that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Interdisciplinary/Biologist/Toxicologist, at the next lower grade level of GS-13 or higher equivalency.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes providing subject matter expertise in evaluating/analyzing toxicological and/or biological data; conducting scientific studies in the areas of pharmacology, biology, and/or toxicology; and leading in the development of in vitro and/or in vivo test designs.
 B. My experience is not reflected in the above statement.
7. Your responses to the Eligibility Assessment and Occupational Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Failing to select a response will result in your application packet being removed from consideration.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected