Position Title
Medical Records Technician (Coder- Outpatient and Inpatient)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12779236-25-SBT Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 14, 2025 to Thursday, August 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
4
5
6
7
8
2. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
3. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. Your resume must provide specific examples or documentation of your experience as proof to support your answers. Your failure to adequately document your experience, education, or certification on your resume may result in you being found not qualified for this position. No assumptions are made regarding your qualifications.
The following are the requirements for appointment as a Medical Records Technician (MRT) (Coder- Outpatient and Inpatient) in the Veterans Health Administration(VHA). These requirements apply to all VHA MRT (Coder- Outpatient and Inpatient) assignments in the GS-0675 series. MRTs (Coder- Outpatient and Inpatient) are skilled in classifying medical data from patient health records in the hospital setting, and/or physician-based settings, such as physician offices, group practices, multi-specialty clinics, and specialty centers. These coding practitioners analyze and abstract patients' health records, and assign alpha-numeric codes for each diagnosis and procedure.
Definitions:
 Journey Level: The full performance level for the MRT (Coder) assignment is GS-8.
Creditable Experience: Experience is only creditable if it is directly related to the position to be filled. To be creditable, the candidate's experience must have demonstrated the use of knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) associated with current practice and must be paid or non-paid employment equivalent to a MRT (Coder).
Quality of Experience: To be creditable, experience must be documented on the application or resume and verified in an employment reference or through other independent means.
Part-Time Experience: Part-time experience as a professional MRT is creditable according to its relationship to the full-time work week. For example, an MRT would receive one week of full-time credit for each two weeks of half-time work.
1. English Language Proficiency. MRT (Coders) must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7403(f).

Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 A. Yes, I am proficient in spoken and written English.
 B. No, I am not proficient in spoken and written English.
2. All Medical Records Technician (Coder) are required to have at least one of the following basic required Experience and/or Education: Select the appropriate statement that best describes your experience and/or education.
 A. Experience: One year of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, anatomy, physiology, pathophysiology, medical coding, and the structure and format of a health records
 B. Education: An associates degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education with a major field of study in health information technology/health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, medical coding, and introduction to health records); OR, Completion of an AHIMA approved coding program, or other intense coding training program of approximately one year or more that included courses in anatomy and physiology, medical terminology, basic ICD diagnostic/procedural, and basic CPT coding. The training program must have led to eligibility for coding certification/certification examination, and the sponsoring academic institution must have been accredited by a national U.S. Department of Education accreditor, or comparable international accrediting authority at the time the program was completed.
 C. Experience/Education Combination: a) Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, general understanding of medical coding and the health record, and one year above high school, with a minimum of 6 semester hours of health information technology courses b) Successful completion of a course for medical technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or hospital training obtained in a training program given by the Armed Forces or the U.S. Maritime Service, under close medical and professional supervision, may be substituted on a month-for-month basis for up to six months of experience provided the training program included courses in anatomy, physiology, and health record techniques and procedures. Also, requires six additional months of creditable experience that is paid or non-paid employment equivalent to a MRT (Coder).
 D. Grandfathering Provision: All persons employed in VHA as a MRT (Coder) on December 10, 2019 are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series, and grade held, including positive education and certification that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. I may be reassigned, promoted, or demoted within the occupation, but will not be promoted beyond the journey level (GS-08) or placed in supervisory or managerial positions.
 E. I do not have the basic education and or experience for the MRT Coder position as listed in A-D above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3.
Persons hired or reassigned to MRT (Coder) positions in the GS-0675 series in VHA must have either (1), (2), or (3) below:

(1) Apprentice/Associate Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC.
(2) Mastery Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC.
(3) Clinical Documentation Improvement Certification through AHIMA or ACDIS.

NOTE: Mastery level certification is required for all positions above the journey level; however, for clinical documentation improvement specialist assignments, a clinical documentation improvement certification may be substituted for a mastery level certification. Proof of your certification must be included in your application package.

Do you possess any of the certifications listed above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Grade Requirements. In addition to the basic requirement, the following questions are used for grade determination as a Medical Records Technician (Coder- Outpatient and Inpatient). Education and experience will be verified.
Medical Records Technician (Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient) , GS-04. Experience or Education. None beyond basic requirements. Assignment. Employees at this level serve as entry level MRTs (Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient) and receive close supervision from more experienced MRTs (Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient). They select and assign codes from current versions of ICD CM, PCS, CPT, and HCPCS classification systems to both inpatient and outpatient records. They review record documentation to abstract all required medical, surgical, ancillary, demographic, social and administrative data, and query clinical staff, as appropriate, with close guidance from higher level MRTs (Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient). They use various computer applications to abstract records, assign codes, and record and transmit data. They ensure audit findings have been corrected and refiled. MRTs (Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient) may be assigned to a single facility or region, such as a consolidated coding unit.
4. Medical Records Technician (Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient). GS-05, select the option that best describes your experience and/or education.

Employees at this grade level serve as developmental level 1 MRTs (Coder) and receive guidance from more experienced MRTs (Coder) for more complex coding procedures. Selects and assigns codes from current versions of ICD CM, PCS, CPT, and HCPCS classification systems to both inpatient and outpatient records. They review record documentation to abstract all required medical, surgical, ancillary, demographic, social, and administrative data, and query clinical staff, as appropriate, with guidance from higher level MRTs (Coder). They use various computer applications to abstract records, assign codes, and record and transmit data. They ensure audit findings have been corrected and refiled. MRTs (Coder) may be assigned to a single facility or region, such as a consolidated coding unit.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs: i. Ability to use health information technology and various office software products used in MRT (Coder) positions (e.g., the electronic health record, coding and abstracting software, etc.). ii. Ability to navigate through and abstract pertinent information from health records. iii. Knowledge of the ICD CM, PCS Official Conventions and Guidelines for Coding and Reporting, and CPT guidelines. iv. Ability to apply knowledge of medical terminology, human anatomy/physiology, and disease processes to accurately assign codes to inpatient and outpatient episodes of care based on health record documentation. v. Knowledge of The Joint Commission requirements, CMS, and/or health record documentation guidelines. vi. Ability to manage priorities and coordinate work to complete duties within required timeframes, and the ability to follow-up on pending issues.
 A. I have at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower level, and I can demonstrate the KSAs for the GS-05 MRT (Coder- Outpatient and Inpatient) position. This experience and the KSAs are documented in my resume.
 B. I have a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, with a major field of study in health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 24 semester hours in health information management or technology. Must provide transcripts with your application.
 C. I do not have the education or experience, and/or I cannot demonstrate the KSA for the MRT (Coder- Outpatient and Inpatient) , GS-05.
5. Medical Records Technician (Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient). GS-06, select the option that best describes your experience and/or education.

Employees at this grade level serve in developmental level 2 positions as MRTs (Coder) and receive intermittent monitoring. MRTs (Coder) perform a combination of inpatient and outpatient coding duties. They select and assign codes from current versions of ICD CM, PCS, CPT, and HCPCS classification systems to both inpatient and outpatient records. They review record documentation to abstract all required medical, surgical, ancillary, demographic, social, and administrative data, and query clinical staff, as appropriate, with limited guidance from higher level MRTs (Coder). They use various computer applications to abstract records, assign codes, and record and transmit data. They ensure audit findings have been corrected and refiled. MRTs (Coder) may be assigned to a single facility or region, such as a consolidated coding unit.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs: i. Ability to analyze the health record to identify all pertinent diagnoses and procedures for coding and to evaluate the adequacy of the documentation. ii. Ability to determine whether health records contain sufficient information for regulatory requirements, are acceptable as legal documents, are adequate for continuity of patient care, and support the assigned codes. This includes the ability to take appropriate actions if health record contents are not complete, accurate, timely, and/or reliable. iii. Ability to apply laws and regulations on the confidentiality of health information (e.g., Privacy Act, Freedom of Information Act, and HIPAA). iv. Ability to accurately apply the ICD CM, PCS Official Conventions and Guidelines for Coding and Reporting, and CPT Guidelines to various coding scenarios. v. Comprehensive knowledge of current classification systems, such as ICD CM, PCS, CPT, HCPCS, and skill in applying classifications to both inpatient and outpatient records based on health record documentation. Knowledge of complication or comorbidity/major complication or comorbidity (CC/MCC) and POA indicators to obtain correct MS-DRG.
 A. I have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, and I can demonstrate all the KSAs for the GS-06, MRT (Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient). This experience and the KSAs are documented in my resume.
 B. I do not have the experience, and/or I cannot demonstrate the KSAs for the GS-06 MRT (Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient).
6. Medical Records Technician (Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient). GS-07, select the option that best describes your experience.

Assignment. Employees at this grade level serve as developmental level 3 MRTs (Coder) and receive minimal monitoring. MRTs (Coder) perform a combination of inpatient and outpatient coding duties. Selects and assigns codes from current versions of ICD CM, PCS, CPT, and HCPCS classification systems to both inpatient and outpatient records. They review record documentation to abstract all required medical, surgical, ancillary, demographic, social, and administrative data with minimal guidance from higher level MRTs (Coder). They review and abstract clinical data from the record for documentation of diagnoses and procedures to ensure it is adequate and appropriate to support the assigned codes. They review provider health record documentation to ensure that it supports the diagnostic and procedural codes assigned and is consistent with required medical coding nomenclature. They also query clinical staff with documentation requirements to support the coding process.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs: i. Skill in applying current coding classifications to a variety of inpatient and outpatient specialty care areas to accurately reflect service and care provided based on documentation in the health record. ii. Ability to communicate with clinical staff for specific coding and documentation issues, such as recording inpatient and outpatient diagnoses and procedures, the correct sequencing of diagnoses and/or procedures, and the relationship between health record documentation and code assignment. iii. Ability to research and solve coding and documentation related issues. iv. Skill in reviewing and correcting system or processing errors and ensuring all assigned work is complete. v. Ability to abstract, assign, and sequence codes, including complication or comorbidity/major complication or comorbidity (CC/MCC), and POA indicators to obtain correct MS-DRG.
 A. I have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, and I can demonstrate all the KSAs for the GS-07, MRT (Coder- Outpatient and Inpatient) .This experience and the KSAs are documented in my resume.
 B. I do not have the experience, and/or I cannot demonstrate the KSAs for the GS-07 MRT (Coder- Outpatient and Inpatient).
7. Medical Records Technician (Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient). GS-08, select the option that best describes your experience.
Assignment. This is the journey level for this assignment. MRTs (Coder) at this level perform the full scope of inpatient and outpatient coding duties. MRTs (Coder) select and assign codes from current versions of ICD CM, PCS, CPT, and HCPCS classification systems to both inpatient and outpatient records. Inpatient duties consist of the performance of a comprehensive review of documentation within the health record to assign ICD CM and PCS codes for diagnosis, complications/major complications, comorbid/major comorbid conditions, surgery, and procedures for accurate assignment of DRGs. Outpatient duties consist of the performance of a comprehensive review of documentation within the health record to accurately assign ICD CM codes for diagnosis and complications, and CPT/HCPCS codes for surgeries, procedures, evaluation and management services, and inpatient professional services. They independently review and abstract clinical data from the record for documentation of diagnoses and procedures to ensure it is adequate and appropriate to support the assigned codes. They code all complicated and complex medical/specialty diseases processes, patient injuries, and all medical procedures in a wide range of ambulatory/inpatient settings and specialties. They directly consult with the clinical staff for clarification of conflicting, incomplete, or ambiguous clinical data in the health record. They abstract, assign, and sequence codes into encoder software to obtain correct diagnosis-related DRG, support medical necessity, resolve encoder edits, and ensure codes accurately reflect services rendered. They review provider health record documentation to ensure that it supports diagnostic and procedural codes assigned, and is consistent with required medical coding nomenclature. They query clinical staff with documentation requirements to support the coding process. They enter and correct information that has been rejected, when necessary. They correct any identified data errors or inconsistencies. They also ensure audit findings have been corrected and refiled. They use various computer applications to abstract records, assign codes, and record and transmit data. MRTs (Coder) may be assigned to a single facility or region, such as a consolidated coding unit.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs: i. Ability to analyze the health record to identify all pertinent diagnoses and procedures for coding and to evaluate the adequacy of the documentation. This includes the ability to read and understand the content of the health record, the terminology, the significance of the comments, and the disease process/pathophysiology of the patient. ii. Ability to accurately perform the full scope of outpatient coding, including ambulatory surgical cases, diagnostic studies and procedures, and outpatient encounters, and inpatient facility coding, including inpatient discharges, surgical cases, diagnostic studies and procedures, and inpatient professional services. iii. Skill in interpreting and adapting health information guidelines that are not completely applicable to the work, or have gaps in specificity, and the ability to use judgment in completing assignments using incomplete or inadequate guidelines.
 A. I have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, and I can demonstrate all the KSAs for the GS-08, MRT (Coder- Outpatient and Inpatient) . This experience and the KSAs are documented in my resume.
 B. I do not have the experience, and/or I cannot demonstrate the KSAs for the GS-08 MRT( Coder- Outpatient and Inpatient).
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected