Position Title
Senior Training Advisor
Agency
Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers
Announcement Number
FLETC-NCR/ITD-25-12774454 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, August 12, 2025 to Tuesday, August 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you currently employed as a permanent career or career-conditional employee with the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers (FLETC) in the Competitive Service?

To verify your eligibility as a current FLETC employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:

• Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• Your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
14
15
Conditions of Employment
1. I am willing and able to possess and maintain a valid state-issued driver's license to conduct official government business.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2.

Are you applying for a promotion? It is a promotion if you are applying for a general schedule (GS) position that is higher than the grade level you currently hold or previously held in the past. To be considered for a promotion, you must provide SF-50(s) that shows that you have held the next lower GS grade for at least one year. SF-50s that have an effective date within the past year (e.g., General Adjustment SF-50 from this year or Within Rate/Grade Increases (WRI/WGI) SF-50 within a year) do not clearly show that you meet the one-year time-in-grade requirement. That means if you submit an SF-50 that is dated within the last year, you must submit another SF-50 that is dated more than one year ago to clearly demonstrate you meet the time-in-grade requirements.

 A. Yes, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a promotion. I have submitted one or two SF-50(s) that show I have held the next lower GS grade or equivalent (non-GS pay system) for at least one year.
 B. No, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a GS grade that I currently hold or have held in the past. I have submitted an SF-50 to support this claim.
 C. Yes, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a promotion but I have not held the next lower grade or equivalent (non-GS pay system) for at least one year. I was recently promoted to my current grade level within the last year so I do not meet the time-in-grade requirements for promotion.
 D. No, I am not a GS employee and I have not been a GS employee within the last year (e.g. I am in a pay band, or I am an FWS employee, or I have never worked for the federal government) so this is not applicable to me.
3. I am willing and able to undergo pre-appointment drug testing for illegal drug use.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I am willing to complete an initial and annual physical examination that measures visual, hearing, and physical acuity.
 A. Yes
 B. No
FLETC Data Questions
1. How did you learn about this Department of Homeland Security (DHS) job opportunity announcement?
--Select-- 
--Select--
Career Fair
Met a FLETC representative at a recruitment event
Magazine
Newspaper
Radio
TV
Poster
Private Employment Office
State Employment Office (Unemployment Office)
Agency Human Resources Development (bulletin board or other announcement)
Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college
Federal, state, or local Job Information Center
Religious organization
College, university, or career placement counselor
Friend or relative working for this agency
Friend or relative not working for this agency
USAJOBS
Professional Association
Publication
Conference
College Event
Private information service
LinkedIn
Other
2. Select the rating level you received, as applicable to your agency's performance management system, for your last performance appraisal. Please provide a copy of your last performance appraisal.
 A. Outstanding | Achieved Excellence
 B. Exceeds Fully Successful/Highly Successful | Exceeded Expectations
 C. Fully Successful/Pass | Achieved Expectations
 D. Minimally Satisfactory/Minimally Acceptable
 E. Unacceptable/Fail
 F. None of the above
3. Select the types of awards you have received within the last three years.
 A. Quality Step Increase
 B. Special Act or Time Off Award
 C. Performance Award
 D. Honorary Award
 E. Letter of Commendation
 F. None of the above
4. List any education and/or training related to this position (do not provide copies of certificates).
5. I have thoroughly reviewed the 'How to Apply/Required Documents' & 'Qualifications' sections of this Vacancy Announcement to determine which supplemental documents to submit. This may include: Transcripts to verify undergraduate/graduate education; A Current/Non-Award SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, noting current position title, series, grade, position occupied, tenure, highest salary (including basic pay) and duty location if I am a current/former Federal employee; DD-214 if I am a veteran (and SF-15/VA Letter if applicable), etc. I understand that failure to fax or upload required documents by the vacancy announcement's closing date may result in loss of consideration. Answer to this question is required.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. In order to be considered for this position you must meet one of the selective placement factors. From the list below select the statement(s) that describes your experience.
 A. I have held a position as a sworn law enforcement officer, or agent with full arrest authority in the prevention, detection, apprehension, detention and/or investigation of felony and/or misdemeanor violations of Federal, state, local, tribal, or military criminal laws.
 B. I have held a position in the 1801 occupational series.
 C. None of the above.
2. Have you graduated from a law enforcement academy? If graduated from an academy, please ensure your resume contains the academy's name and location (city, state) as well as your graduation date (MM/DD/YYYY).

For U.S. Coast Guard personnel only - If you were certified through the Boarding Officer Personnel Qualifications Standard Certification Program (PQS), you must include the certification date in your resume. You may be asked to provide a copy of the certification. Failure to provide this information in your resume may result in your loss of consideration.
 A. If graduated from an academy, please ensure your resume contains the academy's name and location (city, state) as well as your graduation date (MM / DD / YYYY). For U.S. Coast Guard personnel only- If you were certified through the Boarding Officer Personnel Qualifications Standard Certification Program (PQS), you must include the certification date in your resume. You may be asked to provide a copy of the certification. Failure to provide this information in your resume may result in your loss of consideration.
 B. No
3. From the options below, select the one statement that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for a Senior Training Advisor, GS-1801-15.

NOTE: Your resume must support your claim of specialized experience, i.e. where, when and how you performed the work, or you may be found ineligible.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-14 ), or pay band in the federal service, or equivalent experience in the private or public sector performing the following duties: (1) Managing the design, development, and implementation of complex civilian police training and organizational development for international customers; 2) Developing training and curriculum standards, policies, and procedures for adoption and implementation by local law enforcement agencies; 3) Identifying country-specific needs to develop and monitor funding requirements for in-country programs to ensure financial integrity and operational efficiency; 4) Creating bilateral and regional approaches to identify security threats and enhance information sharing within the host nation law enforcement community and neighboring regions.
 B. I do not have the experience described above.
4. From the options below, select the one statement that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for a Senior Training Advisor, GS-1801-14.
NOTE: Your resume must support your claim of specialized experience, i.e. where, when and how you performed the work, or you may be found ineligible.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-13 ), or pay band in the federal service, or equivalent experience in the private or public sector performing the following duties: (1) Analyzing and providing commentary on pending legislation concerning criminal law and procedures impacting police operations.; (2) Evaluating international police training program delivery to ensure program goals are met and resolve any obstacles; (3) Preparing reports and presentations regarding adoption of law enforcement ideals.
 B. I do not have the experience described above.
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided. Please ensure your answer is fully supported in your resume.
5. Indicate the extent of your knowledge and experience in managing a law enforcement academy.
 A. I have served as a program manager or senior advisor charged with operationalizing strategic planning in support of a law enforcement agency capacity building initiatives overseas.
 B. I have served as a deputy program manager or advisor charged with operationalizing strategic planning in support of a law enforcement agency capacity building initiatives overseas.
 C. I have no experience serving as a program manager or advisor charged with operationalizing strategic planning in support of law enforcement agency capacity building overseas.
 D. My experience does not meet the experience described above.
6. Select the statement that best describes the extent of your knowledge and experience in international law enforcement training development and program delivery.
 A. I am considered an expert and am consulted by others in applying the most current training concepts, principles, techniques, and practices of international law enforcement training technologies and methodologies. I have experience managing diverse and complicated training programs. I have conducted needs assessments, drafted learning objectives, and written lesson plans and course materials based on adult learning models.
 B. I have applied current training concepts, principles, techniques, and practices of international law enforcement training technologies and methodologies. I have limited experience managing diverse and complicated training programs. I have assisted with needs assessments, drafting learning objectives, and writing lesson plans and course materials based on adult learning models.
 C. I have no experience with current training concepts, principles, techniques, and practices of international law enforcement training technologies or methodologies. I have no experience managing diverse and complicated training programs, but have assisted with needs assessments, drafting learning objectives, and writing lesson plans and course materials based on adult learning models.
 D. I have no experience in performing these tasks.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
7. I have independently organized conferences to address variety of complex and technical issues dealing with international training and technical assistance.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Indicate the extent of your experience in handling multiple tasks and changing priorities.
 A. As part of my regular job duties, I have dealt frequently with rapidly changing priorities, handling crisis situations, addressing multi-cultural training needs, handling heavy workloads, and meeting tight deadlines.
 B. As part of my regular job duties, I have dealt occasionally with rapidly changing priorities, handling crisis situations, addressing multi-cultural training needs, handling heavy workloads, and meeting tight deadlines.
 C. As part of my regular job duties, I have dealt occasionally with changes in workload and priorities.
 D. I have had no experience in performing multiple tasks and dealing with changing priorities.
9. Indicate the extent of your experience providing technical advice, guidance, and/or direction to Executive officials concerning organizational processes and/or international law enforcement topics.
 A. I have reported directly to the Senior Executive Staff or Senior Management (SES) at the Agency, Departmental or Embassy level providing technical advice, guidance, and direction concerning operational issues critical to the organizational mission and function that resulted in formulating plans, policies, and strategies resulting in long range courses of action.
 B. I have reported directly to managers (GS-15 or below) within an organization structure providing technical advice, guidance, and direction concerning operational issues critical to the unit's mission and function that resulted in formulating plans, policies, and strategies resulting in long range courses of action.
 C. I assisted with preparing and/or providing technical advice, guidance, and direction or information to managers or non-supervisory team leaders concerning operational issues of a non-critical nature to the unit’s mission and function that resulted in formulating plans, policies, and strategies resulting in long range courses of action.
 D. I have no experience in performing these tasks.
10. Indicate the extent of your experience in effective oral communications associated with providing technical advice, guidance, and direction concerning organizational processes, standards, and/or international law enforcement topics.
 A. I have extensive experience providing oral presentations to executive, ambassadorial, or ministerial level officials, both domestically and at the international level that are persuasive and informative covering complex and non-routine issues through a variety of formats and media.
 B. I have limited experience providing oral presentations to executive, ambassadorial, or ministerial level officials both domestically and internationally that are persuasive and informative covering complex and non-routine issues through a variety of formats and media.
 C. I have no experience in performing these functions.
11. From the following list, please identify the types of written products that you have authored. (Choose all that apply)
 A. Formal Correspondence
 B. Position Papers
 C. Arrest Reports
 D. Lesson Plans
 E. Instructor Guides
 F. Policy Documents
 G. Procedures and Guidelines
 H. White Papers
 I. Business Cases
 J. Executive Summaries
 K. Budget Analysis
 L. None of the above
12. Select the choice which best describes your ability to stimulate creative thinking and innovation in others.
 A. I have led a group of employees in developing an innovative and improved process in my field.
 B. I have participated in groups or panels that successfully formulated innovative methods to achieve an assigned task.
 C. I have interacted with others on an individual basis seeking new solutions to problems.
 D. None of the above.
13. Select the choice that best describes your experience working with teams to complete a work-related project.
 A. I have led one or more teams tasked with a complex or challenging work-related project that successfully met its goals and objectives.
 B. I have been a member of a team, tasked with a specific work-related project that successfully met its goal and objectives.
 C. I have had no experience in performing this task.
14. Indicate the extent of your experience in developing and interpreting policy on designated programs.
 A. I have independently developed and implemented new policies that impact a specific program or interpreted the program response to far reaching policy directives.
 B. I have drafted and/or studied proposal for the implementation of new policies or provided recommendations for the application of policies to a specific program.
 C. I have assisted and provided input to my superiors or subject-matter experts concerning the development of a new policy or the application of a new policy to a specific program.
 D. I have no experience in performing this task.
15. Which of the following statements best describes your experience in the application of Federal departmental and agency laws, regulations, directives, policies, and procedures to delivery of law enforcement training programs.
 A. I am considered an expert and am consulted by others in applying Federal, departmental and agency laws, regulations, directives, policies, and procedures related to delivery of international law enforcement training programs.
 B. I have applied Federal, departmental, and agency laws, regulations, directives, policies, and procedures to delivery of international law enforcement training programs.
 C. My experience does not meet the experience above.
16. Select the choice which best describes your ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships inside and outside the organization.
 A. I have developed and maintained working relationships with interest groups with diverse needs, anticipated and assessed their needs, and provided complex information to them. I have resolved complex or non-routine problems, questions, or complaints.
 B. I have maintained working relationships with members of the public who have diverse needs, assessed their needs, and provided moderately complex information to them. I have resolved fairly complex or non-routine problems, questions, or complaints.
 C. I have provided routine information, resolved simple problems, questions, or complaints, and directed non-routine problems, questions, or complaints to the appropriate person/office.
 D. I have had no experience in performing this task.
17. Indicate the extent of your experience in building support for ideas and initiatives with key stakeholders inside and outside the organization.
 A. I have analyzed the pros and cons of key ideas/initiatives and clearly clarified these options for key internal and external stakeholders with the result that the ideas/initiatives were successfully implemented.
 B. I have sought support for ideas and initiatives from key internal and external stakeholders with the result that these ideas/initiatives have been included in major recommendations made by others.
 C. I have limited experience with building support for ideas and initiatives with key stakeholders inside and outside the organization. I have worked under close guidance/supervision to gain key stakeholders support for ideas or initiatives.
 D. I have had no experience in performing these tasks.
18. Indicate the extent of your experience in defusing potentially volatile/difficult situations and providing interested parties with opportunities to voice concerns.
 A. I have had extensive experience in defusing potentially volatile/difficult situations involving multiple groups.
 B. I have had experience in defusing potentially volatile/difficult situations involving a group.
 C. I have had experience in defusing volatile/difficult situations involving one or two individuals.
 D. I have had no experience in performing this task.
19. Select the responses that best describe your experience and skills of adapting your leadership style to obtain effective results. (Choose all that apply)
 A. I have experience leveraging my leadership style to build strength through acceptance, including using my influence without authority.
 B. I have experience identifying and removing barriers and effectively resolving conflict in the workplace.
 C. I have knowledge and experience of how to have employees in their area of responsibility feel like a valued part of the workgroup.
 D. I have experience reinforcing openness and consistency in leading others.
 E. I possess insight into how diversity plays a role in enhancing performance.
 F. I have experience applying team processes and tools to foster commitment, increase trust, empower people, and create unification for accomplishing work and organizational goals through peers and subordinates.
 G. I have experience coaching and building teamwork by valuing diversity, encouraging participation, and obtaining commitment to accomplish common goals.
 H. I have skills to diagnose, assess, and assist poor performers.
 I. I have experience developing strategic approaches for managing and analyzing information in high-pressure situations.
 J. I have experience creating an environment that rewards teamwork and understand how to measure team performance in terms of both content and process.
 K. None of the above.
20. From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, identify those you have performed on a regular and recurring basis. (Choose all that apply)
 A. Communicated and facilitated the organization's shared vision in support of the agency's mission, vision, values, goals and objectives in the law enforcement environment.
 B. Enforced organizational policies and standards within the law enforcement workplace holding individuals accountable and administering administrative discipline.
 C. Coordinated efforts to adjust work activities in situations where frequent changes, delays or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, and/or work assignments in a law enforcement organization.
 D. Facilitated the resolution of competing or conflicting interests among co-workers whose cooperation was essential to the success of a project in the law enforcement environment.
 E. Negotiated with and influenced others in order to gain their commitment to pursue new or existing initiatives or technologies in the law enforcement field.
 F. Justified, persuaded, negotiated, and/or resolved matters involving significant law enforcement policy and/or program issues.
 G. Conducted discussions and provided direction and guidance to members of interdisciplinary teams charged with carrying out technical law enforcement projects.
 H. Used consensus-building techniques to persuade representatives of law enforcement groups that hold opposing views or positions to reach agreement on important issues.
 I. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
21. Do you have experience communicating program or project information to senior leadership?
 A. Yes
 B. No
22. Which of the following statements best describes your management experience?
 A. I have functioned as an executive manager applying the principles of leadership in establishing strategies and long-term goals for subordinate managers and supervisors within my department or agency.
 B. I have functioned as a mid-level manager carrying out the established strategies and long-term goals of my superior and the organization.
 C. I have functioned as a first line supervisor resolving complex and controversial issues regarding program requirements, policies and/or operations.
 D. I have no experience in performing these functions.
23. Which of the following statements best describes your skill in building coalitions and networking?
 A. I have had extensive experience building coalitions and networking with foreign and domestic individuals, groups and organizations on law enforcement training and technical assistance issues taking into account various views to establish concurrence with program objectives and plans which are responsive to participant jurisdictions and interests.
 B. I have assisted others with coalition building and networking with foreign and domestic individuals, groups and organizations on law enforcement training and technical assistance issues taking into account their various views to establish concurrence with program objectives and plans which are responsive to participant jurisdictions and interests.
 C. My experience does not meet the experience above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
24. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, ALL of the information provided on this application is true, accurate, and complete, and that this application for employment is made in good faith. I understand that a false statement on any part of this application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that I may be punished by fine or imprisonment for falsification of my employment application (18 USC 1001). I understand that information I give may be investigated as allowed by law or Executive order.

Do you understand and agree to all the above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected