Position Title
Biomedical Engineer
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSR-12812150-26-HYC Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 8, 2025 to Monday, October 20, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Fort Wayne, IN
 B. Marion, IN


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume, supporting documents, and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you meet the eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and other application documents. You will not be contacted for missing information or documents. All information and documents are due at the time of application.


1.
Basic Requirement - Education and/or Experience.
Do you meet any of the below.

(1) Bachelor's Degree or Higher in Engineering. To be creditable, the curriculum must be from a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET), as a professional engineering curriculum. Examples of acceptable engineering degrees include: Biomedical Engineering, Clinical Engineering, Bioengineering, Biomechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, and Biochemical Engineering. Titles may vary from educational institutions and change over time.
OR
(2) Certification as a Certified Clinical Engineer (CCE) (see below) and a bachelor's degree not listed above in item (1).
CERTIFICATION AS A CERTIFIED CLINICAL ENGINEER (CCE) - Certification means having successfully passed a CCE written and oral examination administered by the American College of Clinical Engineering. Individuals with CCE certification demonstrate competency and professional recognition, as measured by an examination designed by their peers. Certification promotes healthcare delivery improvement through the continuing assessment and recognition of competency of professionals. These professionals support and advance patient care by applying engineering and management skills to healthcare technology. If appointed with a CCE requirement, the employee must maintain certification throughout employment. The American College of Clinical Engineering determines acceptable education preparation and degree requirements for CCE eligibility.
(3) Grandfathering Provision. May qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (ONLY APPLICABLE to current VHA employees who are in this occupation and meet the criteria).
 I possess a Bachelor’s Degree or Higher in Engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET), as a professional engineering curriculum. (NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcript(s)).
 I possess certification as a Certified Clinical Engineer (CCE) and a bachelor’s degree. (NOTE: You must submit a copy of your certification and transcript(s)).
 I qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation and meet the criteria).
 I do not possess the required education or certification to qualify for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Basic Requirement - English Language Proficiency.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


3.
Grade determination GS-11.
In addition to meeting the Basic Requirements, the applicant must also meet the below criteria:

(a) Experience. At least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next grade level (GS-9).
OR
(b) Education
Ph.D., or equivalent doctoral degree in Biomedical Engineering, or a related field of engineering, with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET), as a professional engineering curriculum.
OR,
Bachelor's degree, PLUS three full years of progressively higher level graduate education in a related field of study, with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET), as a professional engineering curriculum.
(c) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSA). In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs.
Ability to implement and/or sustain an equipment management or biomedical research program that meets The Joint Commission (TJC), National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), or other applicable regulatory requirements.
Ability to develop material for a continuing education program for clinical or research staff, that address the principles and application of medical technology, and/or biomedical theory used in healthcare.
Ability to advise staff on emerging medical technology, or research procedures, while keeping abreast of changes in such technology, and utilizing the information to solve biomedical engineering problems.
Knowledge of basic project management principles, as applied to the healthcare setting and medical equipment, and information system implementation.
 Yes, I possess both the basic and the above grade determining requirements, and can demonstrate the above Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. (NOTE: Must demonstrate experience on resume with hours worked per week and submit transcript).
 Yes, I possess both the basic and the above grade determining requirements, and can demonstrate the above Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. (NOTE: Must demonstrate experience on resume with hours worked per week and submit transcript).
 I qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation and meet the criteria).
 No, I do not meet the basic and grade determining requirements to qualify for this position.


4.
Grade determination GS-12.
In addition to meeting the Basic Requirements, the applicant must also meet the below criteria:

(a) Experience. Completion of at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower level (GS-11); or completion of a post-doctoral research fellowship in the field of biomedical engineering, and must fully meet the KSAs at that level.
(b) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSA). In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs.
Ability to conduct a medical equipment management or biomedical research program that is compliant with applicable healthcare standards and regulatory agencies.
Ability to develop a curriculum for a continuing education program, that address the safe and effective use of medical technology, and/or research devices.
Ability to manage a recall and safety alert program for medical devices, including medical device hazard investigations, to assure compliance with patient safety goals, SMDA, and TJC requirements.
Ability to conduct capital asset and infrastructure planning for medical equipment spanning initial concept, installation, and effective implementation of complex medical equipment.
Ability to function as the subject matter expert in the field of biomedical engineering, directly supporting specialized clinical technology, including service, system administration, training, quality assurance, and life-cycle management.
Ability to effectively advise clinical and administrative staff on medical technology, including existing and emerging technology, which addresses viability, long-term suitability, compatibility, and/or safety.
Knowledge of concepts related to computer based medical systems, networking protocols, and information security as it applies to medical technology within VHA.
Skill in communicating and working collaboratively with key stakeholders, including technical and professional staff at various levels of the organization.
Ability to apply project management principles to deployment of medical equipment and health information technologies.
 Yes, I possess both the basic and the above grade determining requirements, and can demonstrate the above Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. (NOTE: Must demonstrate experience on resume with hours worked per week).
 I qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation and meet the criteria).
 No, I do not meet the basic and grade determining requirements to qualify for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙