Position Title
Human Resources Specialist (Classification)
Agency
U.S. Secret Service
Announcement Number
CPM-KR-12781333-25-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 15, 2025 to Thursday, August 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND meet one (1) of the following?
Retired from active military service with a disability rating of 30% or more; or
Rated by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) or have a disability determination from a branch of the Armed Forces at any time, showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more.
To verify eligibility, you must submit:
DD-214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (Member Copy 4 or equivalent); AND
Official document from the Department of Veterans Affairs or from a branch of the Armed Forces certifying overall compensable service-connected disability rating of at least 30% or more (NOTE: overall percentage must be clearly shown);
 SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference (Page 1 - block #1-4; 6)
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans


 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training?

To verify eligibility, you must submit:
Verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage certificate or other legal documentation verifying marriage); and
Verification of the spouse's active-duty status (i.e., spouse's Permanent Change of Station (PCS) or Active Duty military orders, or official documentation from the Armed Forces branch that verifies spouse's active status). Fiscal Year (FY) 2023 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) extends the temporary provision in which spouses are not required to relocate with active-duty service members on PCS orders. The sunset date of this provision is December 31, 2028.
-OR-

Are you the spouse the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100%, or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100% from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)?

To verify eligibility, you must submit:
Verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage certificate or other legal documentation verifying marriage); and
Verification of the spouse's military service (i.e., DD-214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (Member Copy 4 or equivalent); and
Verification of the service member's 100% disability (i.e., Official document from the Department of Veterans Affairs or from a branch of the Armed Forces certifying the overall compensable service-connected disability rating of 100%) NOTE: The overall percentage must be clearly shown; and
SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference (Page 1 - block #1-4; 7; 7a and Page 2 - Answer questions 1-7)
-OR-

Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces who was killed while in active-duty status?

To verify eligibility, you must submit:
Verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage certificate or other legal documentation verifying marriage); and
Verification of the member's death while on active duty (i.e., DD-1300, Report of Casualty or equivalent); and
SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference (Page 1 - block #1-4; 8; 8a/8b)
NOTE: A spouse is not eligible if not married to the veteran at the time of death or have since remarried.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position and meet the ALL of the following? 
Located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; and
Applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice.
SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), that reflects all of the following:
Position, grade level (GS-15 or below), and duty location; and
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is "1" or "2" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34), or excepted service without time limit (Position Occupied is "2" in block 34) who is covered by a law providing both noncompetitive appointment eligibility to, and selection priority for, competitive service positions.
Any documentation from agency that shows current promotion potential; and
Latest performance appraisal including rating.
For more information, review Career Transition (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current Federal civilian employee in a permanent competitive service position who has never held the highest grade level (or equivalent) for the position is being announced?

To verify eligibility as a current Federal civilian employee, you must submit your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following (you may need to submit more than one SF-50 to comply):
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is 1 or 2 in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34); and
The highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent SF-50) and
Time-in-grade eligibility.
Please note: Examples of appropriate Notification of Personnel Actions, SF-50, include promotions, with-in grade/range increases. While a General Adjustment and/or Award SF-50 may be your most recent SF-50 it typically DOES NOT show proof of Time in Grade. Thus, you may need to submit more than one SF-50 as proof of Time in Grade.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a current Federal civilian employee in a permanent competitive service position who currently holds or has previously held the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential (or equivalent) for the position being announced?

To verify eligibility as a current Federal civilian employee, you must submit your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following (you may need to submit more than one SF-50 to comply):
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is 1 or 2 in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34); and
Reflects the highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent SF-50)
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a current or former Federal civilian employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm the following:  
Located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; and
Applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which will be or were separated; and
Applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which will be or were separated; and
Last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify eligibility, you must submit:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, notice of (proposed) removal for declining a directed geographic relocation outside the local commuting area (e.g., a directed reassignment or a change in duty station), notice of compensable work-related injury or illness termination and agency certification of inability to place, or notice of disability annuity termination; AND
SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), that reflects all of the following:
Position, grade level (GS-15 or below), and duty location; and
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is "1" or "2" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34), or excepted service without time limit (Position Occupied is "2" in block 34) who is covered by a law providing both noncompetitive appointment eligibility to, and selection priority for, competitive service positions.
Any documentation from agency that shows current promotion potential; AND
Latest performance appraisal including rating.
For more information, review Career Transition (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Are you a current or former Federal civilian employee on a time-limited appointment in the competitive service of a Land Management agency? If yes, confirm the following:

As a current/former employee of a Land Management Agency you MUST work or have worked for one the following:
The Department of Agriculture's Forest Service; or
The Department of Interior's Bureau of Land Management, National Park Service, Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Reclamation.
AND
Are/were on a temporary or term appointment (time-limited) in the competitive service; and
Worked for a land management agency under one (1) or more time-limited appointments for a period or periods totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two (2) or more years; and
Received acceptable performance ratings during each period of service.
Note:  Former land management employees most recent separation must be for reasons other than misconduct or performance AND must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation.

To verify eligibility, you must submit:
ALL Appointment AND Resignation/Termination, SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), totaling more than 24 months that reflects all the following:
Temporary or Term appointment (Tenure Code is "0" or "3" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34)
Performance appraisal showing the official rating of record and signed by a supervisor, for each qualifying period of temporary or term appointment; or, if one is unavailable, provide a statement of performance for each period of service. The statement must specify the dates for each employment period and level of performance (dates should match the dates on the SF-50s).
For more information review Land management, Land Management Eligible, and Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you a current Federal employee in the excepted service and/or in other merit systems of a Federal Agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management (OPM)?  If yes, confirm the following:
Currently serving under an appointment that is not time-limited or have been involuntarily separated from such appointment without personal cause within the preceding year; and
Current serving in or have been involuntarily separated from a position covered by an interchange agreement; and 
Served continuously for at least one (1) year under the interchange agreement.
For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems.

-OR-

Are you a current Federal employee of a Federal Agency covered under other miscellaneous appointing authorities not regulated by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Other Miscellaneous Authorities include the following?
Postal Career Service Employees
Postal Rate Commission Employees
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employees
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employees
For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.

To verify eligibility, you must submit your most recent, Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, and the highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form(s) reflecting eligibility under the OPM Interchange Agreement or Other Miscellaneous Authorities.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you a FORMER competitive-service employee of the Federal Government OR veterans' preference eligible, including those with derived preference, who PREVIOUSLY HELD a career or career-conditional (non-time-limited) appointment?  

To verify eligibility, you must submit your most recent separation Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following:
A career appointment (Tenure Code is 1 in block 24) in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34); or
A career-conditional appointment (Tenure Code is 2 in block 24) in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34)*; and
Reflects the highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent separation SF-50)
If claiming veterans' preference with eligibility, you must submit the following:
DD-214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (Member Copy 4 or equivalent) showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active-duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service and/or
Official document from the Department of Veterans Affairs or from a branch of the Armed Forces certifying overall compensable service-connected disability rating of at least 30% or more (NOTE: overall percentage must be clearly shown); and
SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference 
*If you do not have veterans' preference or did not acquire career tenure, you are only eligible to be reinstated within 3 years after the date of your separation.

For more information review: Reinstatement Eligibility
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you a person with an intellectual disability, a severe physical disability or a psychiatric disability that qualifies for a Schedule A hiring authority?

To verify eligibility, you must submit a disability letter on official stationery/letterhead with an official signature. The letter should clearly state full name and that a person with a disability and are eligible for appointment under Schedule A hiring authority as outlined in 5 CFR Section 213.3102(u). Such documentation must be from one of the below sources:
A licensed medical professional (e.g., a physician or other medical professional duly certified by a State, the District of Columbia, or a U.S. territory, to practice medicine); or
A licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist (State or private); or
Any Federal agency, State agency, or an agency of the District of Columbia or a U.S. territory that issues or provides disability benefits.
A sample letter (PDF file) can be found on the OPM website.

For more information, review Individuals with Disabilities resources
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Are you a Veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and meet one (1) of the following?
Entitled to veterans' preference, including those with derived preference; or
A veteran separated or are expected to be separated within the next 120 days, from the armed forces after three (3) or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions. Veterans who were released shortly before completing a 3-year tour are considered eligible.
To verify eligibility, you must submit:
DD-214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (Member Copy 4 or equivalent) showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active-duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service; or
Future Military Retirees/Separatees submit a certification letter from the Armed Forces that you will be discharged or released from active duty within 120 days from the date on the certification*.
Disabled Veterans submit certification letter from the Armed Forces that you will be discharged or released from active duty within 120 days from the date on the certification* AND an official document from the Department of Veterans Affairs or from a branch of the Armed Forces certifying overall compensable service-connected disability rating AND/OR SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference (SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C).
*This certification letter must indicate dates of active service, rank/grade, expected character of service (i.e., honorable or general) and type of separation (i.e., separation or retirement). Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

"Active service" defined in title 37, United States Code, means active duty in the uniformed services and includes full-time training duty, annual training duty, full-time National Guard duty, and attendance, while in the active service, at a school designated as a service school by law or by the Secretary of the military department concerned.

For more information, review Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Are you a veteran who separated, or are expected to be separated within the next 120 days, from active duty under honorable conditions and meet one (1) of the following?
a disabled veteran; or
served on active duty in the Armed Forces during a war, or in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge has been authorized; or
served on active duty in the Armed Forces and participated in a United States military operation for which an Armed Forces Service Medal was awarded; or
recently separated (within the past 3 years)
To verify eligibility, you must submit:
A DD-214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (Member Copy 4 or equivalent) showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active-duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service; or
Future Military Retirees/Separatees submit a certification letter from the Armed Forces that you will be discharged or released from active duty within 120 days from the date on the certification*.
Disabled Veterans submit certification letter from the Armed Forces that you will be discharged or released from active duty within 120 days from the date on the certification* AND an official document from the Department of Veterans Affairs or from a branch of the Armed Forces certifying overall compensable service-connected disability rating AND SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference 
*This certification letter must indicate dates of active service, rank/grade, expected character of service (i.e., honorable or general) and type of separation (i.e., separation or retirement). Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

"Active service" defined in title 37, United States Code, means active duty in the uniformed services and includes full-time training duty, annual training duty, full-time National Guard duty, and attendance, while in the active service, at a school designated as a service school by law or by the Secretary of the military department concerned.

For more information, review Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
11
12
Conditions of Employment
All applicants must complete the following section. This section will be used to determine your ability and willingness to accept certain conditions of employment or meet certain requirements of the position. Please respond 'Yes' or 'No' to the following statements. Failure to respond to this section will result in an ineligible rating.
1. In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF-50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I certify that I read and understand the U.S. Secret Service Applicant Drug Policy Statement and meet the guidelines at the time of application. (The link to the policy is located under the Qualifications section of the job opportunity announcement.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
All applicants must undergo a comprehensive background investigation. The background investigation focuses on your honesty, reliability, police record, financial record, use of alcohol and drugs, mental health, and employment record. The background investigation includes interviews with your past and present employers, neighbors, teachers, and references, as well as checks of law enforcement, credit, educational, medical, and other records.
3. Recruiter ID Number: If you have one, please enter your recruiter's ID number. (Your recruiter would have supplied it to you). If you do not have one, please enter 0 (zero). (limit 7 characters)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Human Resources Specialist (Classification) position with the United States Secret Service. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
1. Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Human Resources Specialist (Classification) at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal Service which includes evaluating federal position classification standards to determine the appropriate job series, title, and grade to classify federal work, providing advice and guidance on classification and position management functions, reviewing requests for classification actions, and researching federal position classification policies and procedures and to discuss findings with management and employees.
 B. I have successfully completed I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M. in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position. (Note: you must attach a copy of your transcripts. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.)
 C. I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least two years of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required three years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the second year (total graduate semester hours minus 36) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.) (Note: you must attach a copy of your transcripts. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.)
 D. I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: you must attach a copy of your transcripts. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.)
 E. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
2. Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Human Resources Specialist (Classification) at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes evaluating federal position classification standards to determine the appropriate job series, title, and grade to classify federal work, developing written products such as factor evaluation statements, position descriptions, or determination documents that support classification decisions, researching and providing recommendations and alternatives to issues impacting the classification of agency positions and providing recommendations to management on organizational design and position management.
 B. My experience is not reflected in any of the above statement.
3. From the list below select the statements that best describe your experience in conducting desk audits.
 A. Drafted interview questions.
 B. Consulted with employees and supervisors to gather information/job facts regarding the position and the organization.
 C. Conducted assigned desk audits.
 D. Consulted with supervisors to correct discrepancies in position descriptions and organizational relationships.
 E. Resolved discrepancies between approved position descriptions and job audit information regarding the major duties performed by an employee.
 F. Independently composed desk audit findings in correspondence and evaluations.
 G. Conducted consistency reviews.
 H. None of the above
4. From the list below select all of the statements that apply to your experience in designing and carrying out classification studies.
 A. Designed a study plan, including goals and objectives and timelines.
 B. Designed and/or selected assessment instruments.
 C. Developed interview questionnaires.
 D. Conducted fact-finding interviews with managers and employees.
 E. Analyzed questionnaire results and interview findings
 F. Performed qualitative and quantitative analyses on organization and volume data.
 G. Summarized findings for a portion of a study.
 H. Developed recommendations and options.
 I. Prepared a complete position management study report.
 J. Briefed colleagues on findings and recommendations.
 K. Presented findings and recommendations to top management.
 L. Developed and carried out implementation of approved recommendations.
 M. Participated as a study/review team member.
 N. Led a study team, and was accountable for delivering a report.
 O. None of the above
5. From the list below select the statement that best describes your experience justifying controversial position classification results to employees and managers.
 A. I have not had training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
6. From the list below select the position classification function(s) you have independently performed on a regular and recurring basis.
 A. Conducted desk audits on a variety of clerical, administrative, and technician positions (approximately GS-1 through GS-9) and prepared evaluation statements.
 B. Conducted desk audits on a variety of administrative and professional/scientific positions (GS-9 and above) and prepared evaluation statements.
 C. Explained or defended classification determinations to management officials.
 D. Made Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) determinations.
 E. Answered questions on technical classification procedures or requirements.
 F. Produced queries and reports involving position classification data.
 G. Evaluated and prepared responses to the Office of Personnel Management on draft Classification Standards or Guides.
 H. Developed written justification of a classification appeal decision.
 I. Worked with management officials to develop new positions for a re-organization.
 J. Responded verbally or in writing to Classification issues raised by Management officials, EEO investigators or other third parties.
 K. Classified Supervisory and Senior Executive Service positions (SES) positions.
 L. Reviewed position descriptions classified by others to determine adequacy of work and conformance to merit systems principles.
 M. Evaluated positions to determine the appropriate title, series and grade.
 N. Prepared written position descriptions and evaluation reports to support classification determinations.
 O. Conducted occupational and organizational studies.
 P. Served as a consultant or adviser to management on issues involving job restructuring, realignments, and reorganizations.
 Q. None of the above
7. From the list below select the group(s) of position(s) you regularly classify.
 A. Wage
 B. General Schedule
 C. Supervisory.
 D. Administrative.
 E. Professional/Scientific
 F. Clerical and/or Technical.
 G. None of the above.
8. From the list below select the statement that best describes your experience creating standard operating procedures, policies and job aides related to classification and position management.
 A. I have not had training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
9. From the list below select the statement that best describes your experience explaining personnel laws, regulations, procedures and policies to other employees.
 A. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have performed this task and/or I have trained others in performance of this task and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
10. From the list below select the statement that best describes your experience advising managers on the use of position classification options (e.g., accretion of duties, position re-descriptions, position reviews, impact of the person on the job).
 A. I have not had training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
11. From the list below select the statements that best describe the type of duties you perform or have performed in position classification.
 A. Work with management and employees on complex and/or controversial classification issues that may affect grade level structures, reorganization, and or changes in location or functions of a large number of positions.
 B. Write position descriptions either for individual positions and/or to serve as a model for groups of similar positions.
 C. Conduct and/or lead briefings, meetings, and conferences on classification and position management issues.
 D. Monitor and ensure that organizations are within ceiling levels when additional positions are requested.
 E. Determine competitive levels and control assignment of position numbers.
 F. None of the above.
12. From the list below select the statement that best describes your knowledge of, and experience in, interpreting and applying federal classification regulations.

 A. I interpret federal regulations dealing with classification and have applied these regulations as part of my job experience.
 B. I am familiar with federal regulations dealing with classification but have not applied these regulations as a regular part of my job experience.
 C. I interpret federal regulations dealing with classification as a regular part of my job experience and have assisted/trained others on their interpretation.
 D. I have written classification policies and procedures based on my interpretation of federal regulations.
 E. None of the above
13. From the list below select the statements that best describe your experience with classification.

 A. Analyzed and interpreted work functions and employee utilization, and provided guidance on the necessity for reclassification of jobs and/or realignment of functions.
 B. Performed comparative classification studies to determine if there is conformity across several offices.
 C. Addressed position classification issues of unusual complexity such as an impact of person-on-the-job, interdisciplinary positions, and mixed positions.
 D. Provided management advice and assistance on proper position management considering mission requirements and classification accuracy.
 E. Resolved difficult, controversial and/or unprecedented classification issues.
 F. Wrote responses to Congressional and other important inquiries regarding classification issues.
 G. Persuaded management, supervisors, employees, and others to reach consensus, adopt recommended solutions, or accept work products.
 H. Prepared and processed formal classification appeals packages.
 I. None of the above.
14. From the list below select the statement that best describes your experience providing Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) classification advice and guidance on complex, controversial or precedent position classifications issues.

 A. This task has been a major part of my work. I am highly skilled at performing this task and I have supervised or trained others in the performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance.
 B. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 C. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 E. I have no education, training or experience performing this task.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
15. Do you have experience defending your classification determinations to senior management?
 A. Yes
 B. No
16. From the list below, select the best statement that describes your experience delivering verbal presentations.
 A. I have no public speaking training or experiences delivering verbal presentations.
 B. I have some public speaking training, but no experience delivering verbal presentations.
 C. I have performed public speaking tasks on the job under close supervision from supervisors or senior employees.
 D. I have performed public speaking tasks as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without supervisor or senior employee oversight.
 E. I have supervised colleagues in the performance of this task, and/or I have trained others to deliver oral presentations and I am normally consulted for expert assistance in delivering verbal presentations.
17. From the list below select the statement that best describes your ability to communicate verbally with all levels of employees and management in order to obtain and provide information.
 A. I have questioned, interviewed, or conferred with others to obtain or verify information; or participated in debate or speech programs; or explained non-technical procedures to customers.
 B. I have notified supervisors, managers, or offices orally of decisions, problems, or further actions needed; or I have explained the organization's programs or services to others.
 C. I have given presentations at departmental/organizational briefings and meetings, and acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations.
 D. I have given presentations at professional meetings and conferences external to my agency. I have discussed and explained technical material that was often controversial or sensitive. I have adapted my explanations to the level of the target audience.
 E. None of the above
18. From the list below select the statement that best describes your experience analyzing data and preparing written recommendations and/or reports.
 A. I have no training or experience performing these job functions.
 B. I have received post high school education and/or formal training to perform these functions, but have not performed them on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise.
19. From the list below select the statement that best describes the extent to which you have written technical or non-technical documents to communicate information to others within and outside your organization.
 A. I have written basic correspondence, letters, or memos on non-technical issues.
 B. I have written non technical reports and have drafted responses to requests for information; or I have written brief, informative professional articles; or I have co-authored technical documents with others; or I have written routine reports.
 C. I have written comprehensive technical reports/documents that incorporated specialized terminology; or I have written policies, procedures, or training manuals/materials; or I have written conference materials.
 D. None of the above
20. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.

 A. Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected