Position Title
HELICOPTER PILOT
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NM-12794405-AR-T32-025-035 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 3, 2025 to Wednesday, September 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current National Guard member within the state for which this position is being advertised?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
11
12
Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Are you a member of the New Mexico Army National Guard?
(YOU MUST BE A MEMBER OF THE NEW MEXICO ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PRIOR TO THE CLOSE DATE TO BE ELIGIBLE FOR THIS POSITION)
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you possess the Warrant Officer rank of CW3 and below)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you possess competence to review and analyze mission tasks, intelligence, and weather information. Experience in supervising and/or filing of flight plans and conducting crew briefings, experiences include aircraft preflight inspections, aircraft loading, and equipment assessments and experience in performing or supervising work procedures involved in navigation, in-flight refueling, search and rescue operations, surveillance, and/or reconnaissance?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Do you possess at least two years specialized competencies in operating a specific main-frame military aircraft, mission planning, and mission preparation. Experienced in reviewing and analyzing mission tasking, intelligence, and weather information and experienced in filing flight plans and conducting crew briefings and experienced in aircraft preflight inspections, aircraft loading, and equipment assessments?
 A. Yes
 B. No
For each technical area below, select the response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and demonstrated capability.
5. Knowledge in flight theory, air navigation, meteorology, flying directives, mission tactics, and operating procedures.
 A. I have no knowledge or demonstrated capability in this technical area.
 B. I can demonstrate an understanding of the fundamental concepts involved in this technical area. I will require formal training and close supervision to perform this work.
 C. I can demonstrate an understanding of some advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of working on most projects in this technical area with moderate assistance. I am able to perform this work with minimal supervision.
 D. I can demonstrate an understanding of many advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of mentoring others on some projects in this technical area. I am able to perform this work without supervision except in the most complex situations.
 E. I can demonstrate an understanding of most advanced concepts within this technical area. I am considered an expert in the field and am frequently consulted by others about this technical area. I am responsible for mentoring and training others in this technical area.
For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.
6. Experience in the unit flying, explosive, and ground safety programs in accordance with Department of Defense, Department of the Army, National Guard Bureau, and/or Occupational Safety and Health Administration policies, regulations, and directives.
 A. I do not have experience or demonstrated capability in performing this activity, but I am willing to learn.
 B. I have limited experience in performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 C. I have a fair amount of experience and a fair amount of demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform this activity more effectively.
 D. I have considerable experience and considerable demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively.
 E. I have extensive experience and extensive demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I am considered an expert; I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. I have received verbal and/or written recognition from others in carrying out this activity.
7. Experienced in mission tasking, intelligence reporting, and applying weather information.
 A. I do not have experience or demonstrated capability in performing this activity, but I am willing to learn.
 B. I have limited experience in performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 C. I have a fair amount of experience and a fair amount of demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform this activity more effectively.
 D. I have considerable experience and considerable demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively.
 E. I have extensive experience and extensive demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I am considered an expert; I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. I have received verbal and/or written recognition from others in carrying out this activity.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected