Position Title
Administrative Officer
Agency
U.S. Secret Service
Announcement Number
INV-RS-12785820-25-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 2, 2025 to Monday, September 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND meet one (1) of the following?
Retired from active military service with a disability rating of 30% or more; or
Rated by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) or have a disability determination from a branch of the Armed Forces at any time, showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more.
To verify eligibility, you must submit:
DD-214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (Member Copy 4 or equivalent); AND
Official document from the Department of Veterans Affairs or from a branch of the Armed Forces certifying overall compensable service-connected disability rating of at least 30% or more (NOTE: overall percentage must be clearly shown);
 SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference (Page 1 - block #1-4; 6)
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans


 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training?

To verify eligibility, you must submit:
Verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage certificate or other legal documentation verifying marriage); and
Verification of the spouse's active-duty status (i.e., spouse's Permanent Change of Station (PCS) or Active Duty military orders, or official documentation from the Armed Forces branch that verifies spouse's active status). Fiscal Year (FY) 2023 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) extends the temporary provision in which spouses are not required to relocate with active-duty service members on PCS orders. The sunset date of this provision is December 31, 2028.
-OR-

Are you the spouse the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100%, or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100% from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)?

To verify eligibility, you must submit:
Verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage certificate or other legal documentation verifying marriage); and
Verification of the spouse's military service (i.e., DD-214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (Member Copy 4 or equivalent); and
Verification of the service member's 100% disability (i.e., Official document from the Department of Veterans Affairs or from a branch of the Armed Forces certifying the overall compensable service-connected disability rating of 100%) NOTE: The overall percentage must be clearly shown; and
SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference (Page 1 - block #1-4; 7; 7a and Page 2 - Answer questions 1-7)
-OR-

Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces who was killed while in active-duty status?

To verify eligibility, you must submit:
Verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage certificate or other legal documentation verifying marriage); and
Verification of the member's death while on active duty (i.e., DD-1300, Report of Casualty or equivalent); and
SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference (Page 1 - block #1-4; 8; 8a/8b)
NOTE: A spouse is not eligible if not married to the veteran at the time of death or have since remarried.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position and meet the ALL of the following? 
Located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; and
Applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice.
SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), that reflects all of the following:
Position, grade level (GS-15 or below), and duty location; and
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is "1" or "2" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34), or excepted service without time limit (Position Occupied is "2" in block 34) who is covered by a law providing both noncompetitive appointment eligibility to, and selection priority for, competitive service positions.
Any documentation from agency that shows current promotion potential; and
Latest performance appraisal including rating.
For more information, review Career Transition (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current Federal civilian employee in a permanent competitive service position who has never held the highest grade level (or equivalent) for the position is being announced?

To verify eligibility as a current Federal civilian employee, you must submit your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following (you may need to submit more than one SF-50 to comply):
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is 1 or 2 in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34); and
The highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent SF-50) and
Time-in-grade eligibility.
Please note: Examples of appropriate Notification of Personnel Actions, SF-50, include promotions, with-in grade/range increases. While a General Adjustment and/or Award SF-50 may be your most recent SF-50 it typically DOES NOT show proof of Time in Grade. Thus, you may need to submit more than one SF-50 as proof of Time in Grade.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a current Federal civilian employee in a permanent competitive service position who currently holds or has previously held the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential (or equivalent) for the position being announced?

To verify eligibility as a current Federal civilian employee, you must submit your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following (you may need to submit more than one SF-50 to comply):
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is 1 or 2 in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34); and
Reflects the highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent SF-50)
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a current or former Federal civilian employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm the following:  
Located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; and
Applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which will be or were separated; and
Applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which will be or were separated; and
Last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify eligibility, you must submit:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, notice of (proposed) removal for declining a directed geographic relocation outside the local commuting area (e.g., a directed reassignment or a change in duty station), notice of compensable work-related injury or illness termination and agency certification of inability to place, or notice of disability annuity termination; AND
SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), that reflects all of the following:
Position, grade level (GS-15 or below), and duty location; and
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is "1" or "2" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34), or excepted service without time limit (Position Occupied is "2" in block 34) who is covered by a law providing both noncompetitive appointment eligibility to, and selection priority for, competitive service positions.
Any documentation from agency that shows current promotion potential; AND
Latest performance appraisal including rating.
For more information, review Career Transition (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Are you a current or former Federal civilian employee on a time-limited appointment in the competitive service of a Land Management agency? If yes, confirm the following:

As a current/former employee of a Land Management Agency you MUST work or have worked for one the following:
The Department of Agriculture's Forest Service; or
The Department of Interior's Bureau of Land Management, National Park Service, Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Reclamation.
AND
Are/were on a temporary or term appointment (time-limited) in the competitive service; and
Worked for a land management agency under one (1) or more time-limited appointments for a period or periods totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two (2) or more years; and
Received acceptable performance ratings during each period of service.
Note:  Former land management employees most recent separation must be for reasons other than misconduct or performance AND must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation.

To verify eligibility, you must submit:
ALL Appointment AND Resignation/Termination, SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), totaling more than 24 months that reflects all the following:
Temporary or Term appointment (Tenure Code is "0" or "3" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34)
Performance appraisal showing the official rating of record and signed by a supervisor, for each qualifying period of temporary or term appointment; or, if one is unavailable, provide a statement of performance for each period of service. The statement must specify the dates for each employment period and level of performance (dates should match the dates on the SF-50s).
For more information review Land management, Land Management Eligible, and Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you a current Federal employee in the excepted service and/or in other merit systems of a Federal Agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management (OPM)?  If yes, confirm the following:
Currently serving under an appointment that is not time-limited or have been involuntarily separated from such appointment without personal cause within the preceding year; and
Current serving in or have been involuntarily separated from a position covered by an interchange agreement; and 
Served continuously for at least one (1) year under the interchange agreement.
For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems.

-OR-

Are you a current Federal employee of a Federal Agency covered under other miscellaneous appointing authorities not regulated by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Other Miscellaneous Authorities include the following?
Postal Career Service Employees
Postal Rate Commission Employees
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employees
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employees
For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.

To verify eligibility, you must submit your most recent, Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, and the highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form(s) reflecting eligibility under the OPM Interchange Agreement or Other Miscellaneous Authorities.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you a FORMER competitive-service employee of the Federal Government OR veterans' preference eligible, including those with derived preference, who PREVIOUSLY HELD a career or career-conditional (non-time-limited) appointment?  

To verify eligibility, you must submit your most recent separation Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following:
A career appointment (Tenure Code is 1 in block 24) in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34); or
A career-conditional appointment (Tenure Code is 2 in block 24) in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34)*; and
Reflects the highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent separation SF-50)
If claiming veterans' preference with eligibility, you must submit the following:
DD-214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (Member Copy 4 or equivalent) showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active-duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service and/or
Official document from the Department of Veterans Affairs or from a branch of the Armed Forces certifying overall compensable service-connected disability rating of at least 30% or more (NOTE: overall percentage must be clearly shown); and
SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference 
*If you do not have veterans' preference or did not acquire career tenure, you are only eligible to be reinstated within 3 years after the date of your separation.

For more information review: Reinstatement Eligibility
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you a person with an intellectual disability, a severe physical disability or a psychiatric disability that qualifies for a Schedule A hiring authority?

To verify eligibility, you must submit a disability letter on official stationery/letterhead with an official signature. The letter should clearly state full name and that a person with a disability and are eligible for appointment under Schedule A hiring authority as outlined in 5 CFR Section 213.3102(u). Such documentation must be from one of the below sources:
A licensed medical professional (e.g., a physician or other medical professional duly certified by a State, the District of Columbia, or a U.S. territory, to practice medicine); or
A licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist (State or private); or
Any Federal agency, State agency, or an agency of the District of Columbia or a U.S. territory that issues or provides disability benefits.
A sample letter (PDF file) can be found on the OPM website.

For more information, review Individuals with Disabilities resources
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you a Veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and meet one (1) of the following?
Entitled to veterans' preference, including those with derived preference; or
A veteran separated or are expected to be separated within the next 120 days, from the armed forces after three (3) or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions. Veterans who were released shortly before completing a 3-year tour are considered eligible.
To verify eligibility, you must submit:
DD-214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (Member Copy 4 or equivalent) showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active-duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service; or
Future Military Retirees/Separatees submit a certification letter from the Armed Forces that you will be discharged or released from active duty within 120 days from the date on the certification*.
Disabled Veterans submit certification letter from the Armed Forces that you will be discharged or released from active duty within 120 days from the date on the certification* AND an official document from the Department of Veterans Affairs or from a branch of the Armed Forces certifying overall compensable service-connected disability rating AND/OR SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference (SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C).
*This certification letter must indicate dates of active service, rank/grade, expected character of service (i.e., honorable or general) and type of separation (i.e., separation or retirement). Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

"Active service" defined in title 37, United States Code, means active duty in the uniformed services and includes full-time training duty, annual training duty, full-time National Guard duty, and attendance, while in the active service, at a school designated as a service school by law or by the Secretary of the military department concerned.

For more information, review Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Saint Louis, MO
 B. Memphis, TN
Conditions of Employment
All applicants must complete the following section. This section will be used to determine your ability and willingness to accept certain conditions of employment or meet certain requirements of the position. Please respond 'Yes' or 'No' to the following statements. Failure to respond to this section will result in an ineligible rating.
1. In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF-50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. If I receive a conditional offer of employment, I am willing to undergo a pre-employment drug screening.
 A. Yes
 B. No
All applicants must undergo a comprehensive background investigation. The background investigation focuses on your honesty, reliability, police record, financial record, use of alcohol and drugs, mental health, and employment record. The background investigation includes interviews with your past and present employers, neighbors, teachers, and references, as well as checks of law enforcement, credit, educational, medical, and other records.
3. Recruiter ID Number: If you have one, please enter your recruiter's ID number. (Your recruiter would have supplied it to you). If you do not have one, please enter 0 (zero). (limit 7 characters)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Administrative Officer position with the United States Secret Service. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.

1. Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Administrative Officer at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes developing short and long-range program goals to support an organization administrative operation; administering finance and budget, procurement, records management, and inventory control; developing office correspondence and reports; monitoring personnel actions and recruitment activities; leading administrative teams, project, and/or complex agreements.
 B. My experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.
2. From the list below select the statements that describe your experience with administrative support duties.
 A. Managing, reviewing and coordinating procurement for office supplies, maintenance and equipment.
 B. Overseeing time and attendance records.
 C. Entering and retrieving data from data management systems.
 D. Maintaining property management records.
 E. Conducting inventories of accountable property.
 F. Preparing reports of lost, stolen, or damaged property.
 G. Coordinating training and developmental needs of staff.
 H. Serving as liaison between offices.
 I. None of the above
3. Select the statement that most closely represents your experience in coordinating administrative work of day-to-day office functions.
 A. I independently handle multiple actions in any given day and coordinate the work with other offices as required. This is typically characterized by: answering phone calls and referring persons to appropriate subject matter personnel; completing reports for delinquent correspondence, preparing status reminders, and ensuring proper approvals/signatures; following-up on pending or required correspondence actions.
 B. I independently handle routine activities in my assigned organization characterized by answering phones, referring calls, and other employees about office procedures and requirements.
 C. I typically provide support to my supervisor on routine matters and day-to-day activities. This is characterized by answering phones, referring calls, maintaining files, directing visitors or other employees to appropriate office or person for assistance, maintaining databases, correct correspondence, and preparing reports.
 D. I typically provide support to office employees on routine matters and day-to-day activities. This is characterized by answering phones, referring calls, maintaining files, directing visitors or other employees to appropriate office or person for assistance, responding to requests, and preparing reports.
 E. I do not have any experience as described in the choices above.
4. From the list below select the statement that best describes your experience advising the staff of new regulations, policies, practices and procedures impacting the administrative function.
 A. I have no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job independently and usually without review by supervisor, manger or senior employee.
 E. I have been consulted as an expert in this task, have supervised the performance of this task by others and/or have trained others to perform this task.
5. From the list below select the statements that best describe your experience performing administrative support functions.
 A. Providing guidance to employees on various rules, policies and regulations.
 B. Preparing, approving and auditing travel documents using federal travel regulations and automated systems.
 C. Performing tasks involved with federal budgeting.
 D. Organizing meetings/conferences that impact the department operations.
 E. Assigning work to subordinates based on priorities, difficulty or assignment or current workload of employees.
 F. Overseeing administrative aspects of the development of the department’s training activities.
 G. None of the above
6. From the list below select the areas with which you have experience as they relate to the procurement of goods and/or services.
 A. Preparing and submitting procurement requests.
 B. Preparing procurement justifications.
 C. Tracking and ensuring the accuracy and quality of procured items and/or services.
 D. Reviewing and authenticating procurement requests submitted by others.
 E. Preparing and disseminating procedural procurement guidelines for use by others.
 F. None of the above
7. From the list below select the types of property you have experience procuring and applying inventory control processes/procedures.
 A. Office supplies
 B. Office equipment
 C. Office furniture
 D. Computer hardware/software
 E. Motor vehicles
 F. None of the above
8. From the list below select the statement that best describes your highest level or experience preparing layouts of office or industrial space.
 A. I have not performed this function.
 B. I have received education and training in preparing layouts of office or industrial space, but I have not performed this function on the job.
 C. I have routinely and independently prepared layouts of office or industrial use.
 D. I am highly skilled at preparing layouts of office or industrial space. I have developed such layouts using information concerning the work to be performed in the space, workflow, ergonomics, available utilities, lighting, etc. I have provided recommendations for interior design, furniture selections, equipment selections, and space management/utilization concerning space used by my employer.
9. From the list below select the statements that best describe your experience with planning and managing property (furniture, equipment, motor vehicles, computers, etc.).
 A. Assessing property needs.
 B. Participating in the development of contract specifications for property.
 C. Coordinating relocation activities.
 D. Surveying the market for product best suited for the need.
 E. Preparing requisitions for properly purchases.
 F. Preparing requisitions for property maintenance and repair.
 G. Maintaining property management records.
 H. Conducting inventories of accountable properly.
 I. Preparing reports of lost, stolen, or damaged properly.
 J. None of the above
10. From the list below select all of the statements that demonstrate your experience with written material.
 A. Write non-technical information for internal and external audiences.
 B. Prepare interoffice memoranda.
 C. Prepare letters for external organizations on behalf of the Department/Agency.
 D. Prepare performance evaluations.
 E. Complete incident reports.
 F. Review reports for technical accuracy, adherence to policy and organization of material.
 G. None of the above
11. Please select the response that best describes your experience with oral communications.
 A. I have presented or defended recommendations on sensitive or complex human resources issues to senior management. My experience includes presenting the office’s policies and/or procedures and leading discussions or participating in work groups; serving on panels, committees, or task forces on human resources issues.
 B. I have conducted informal briefings and presentations to staff within the organization. My experience includes conferring with others to resolve work-related problems; providing advice and assistance to those seeking information; and acquiring or clarifying facts/information as needed to complete assignments.
 C. I have represented management as the authoritative spokesperson for the purpose of explaining the organization’s human resources procedures/policies. My experience includes conducting briefings or trainings to senior officials and defending or negotiating changes or recommendations.
 D. None of the above.
12. From the list below, select all of the statements that describe your demonstrated experience in communicating verbally with high-level management, stakeholders, headquarters, or other external groups on a regular and recurring basis.
 A. I have briefed senior executive level government officials and/or key decision makers on programmatic issues.
 B. I have made presentations on behalf of my employer to industry, professional, respondent, or advisory groups regarding work topics.
 C. I have organized, presented, and/or defended controversial decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations to high-level management officials, stakeholders, or other external groups.
 D. I have served as a spokesperson for an organization.
 E. I have explained policy and procedural requirements to other offices within the organization.
 F. I have conducted or led briefings, meetings, conferences, or negotiations.
 G. I have facilitated communications and activities between organizational entities.
 H. I have served on panels, or led committees or task forces on technical, programmatic and/or professional issues.
 I. I have regularly consulted by others on technical and/or professional issues.
 J. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
13. Have you provided advice and assistance to staff to ensure final products are compliant with organization's policies and practices?
 A. Yes
 B. No
14. From the list below select the statement that best describes your experience supervising a team of subordinate employees.
 A. I am responsible for supervising and/or leading a team of individuals, and make recommendations to management on any conflict resolution or disciplinary issues that arise.
 B. I directly supervise and/or lead a team of individuals, guide their day-to-day operations, provide conflict resolution on administrative matters, and make recommendations to management on any disciplinary actions that need to be taken.
 C. I directly supervise and/or lead a team of individuals, and am responsible for making decisions on technical administrative issues, independently provide conflict resolution on all administrative matters, and initiate disciplinary actions on subordinate employees.
 D. I directly supervise and/or lead multiple teams, and am responsible for making decisions on all administrative issues, independently provide conflict resolution on all administrative matters, and initiate disciplinary actions on subordinate employees.
 E. None of the above
15. From the list below, select all of the statements that demonstrate your experience as a team leader or mentor.
 A. Setting expectations.
 B. Advising on tasks.
 C. Defining roles.
 D. Assigning responsibilities.
 E. Developing performance measurement criteria.
 F. Integrating schedules.
 G. Forecasting and setting milestones.
 H. Coordinating project resources issues.
 I. Participating in programming decisions.
 J. Monitoring progress.
 K. None of the above
16. From the list below, select the statement that best describes the extent to which you have experience planning, organizing, and coordinating assignments.
 A. I have planned, organized, and coordinated my own assignments using specific instructions provided to me by others.
 B. I have planned, organized, and coordinated assignments for myself that involved developing new routines and instructions.
 C. I have planned, organized, and coordinated work assignments for myself and others on my team or work unit.
 D. I have experience planning, organizing, and coordinating complex work assignments for myself, for others on my team or my work unit, and for others outside of my team or my work unit.
 E. None of the above
17. From the list below, select the statements that describe your experience in developing the skills of your subordinates.
 A. I have utilized training plans developed by my supervisor to enhance the skills of my staff.
 B. I have developed and implemented training plans for a staff.
 C. I have directly provided on-the-job training to one of more staff.
 D. I have provided new opportunities for my staff and provided oral and written feedback relative to their performance of new tasks.
 E. None of the above.
18. Select the response that reflects your ability to manage the performance of your work and the work of others.
 A. I independently direct the work of other employees which includes assigning tasks, monitoring progress and setting priorities. This includes shifting resources to assure work goals are met.
 B. I have served as a technical member of a team, but have not had the responsibility to monitor the work of other employees.
 C. I have served as the team lead, monitoring the progress of the team.
 D. I have worked solely to improve the performance of other employees work through providing training and mentorship.
 E. I do not possess any experience managing project and employee performance.
19. From the list below, select all of the statements that demonstrate the leadership functions you have performed for a project or program.
 A. Served as a team leader or project coordinator (formally, informally, or in an acting or temporary capacity).
 B. Coached and mentored staff to achieve desired results.
 C. Evaluated the effectiveness of a complete project or program goal.
 D. Followed-up with colleagues, team members, and others to ensure timeliness in meeting milestones.
 E. Coordinated work assignments to be assigned to colleagues, team members, and others.
 F. Reported progress to senior management.
 G. Reviewed completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness.
 H. None of the above
20. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected