Position Title
Senior Training Advisor
Agency
Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers
Announcement Number
FLETC-NCR/ITD-26-12816848 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, October 20, 2025 to Friday, October 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed as a permanent career or career-conditional employee with the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers (FLETC) in the Competitive Service?

To verify your eligibility as a current FLETC employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:

• Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• Your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
14
15


Conditions of Employment
1.
I am willing and able to possess and maintain a valid state-issued driver's license to conduct official government business.
 Yes
 No


2.

Are you applying for a promotion? It is a promotion if you are applying for a general schedule (GS) position that is higher than the grade level you currently hold or previously held in the past. To be considered for a promotion, you must provide SF-50(s) that shows that you have held the next lower GS grade for at least one year. SF-50s that have an effective date within the past year (e.g., General Adjustment SF-50 from this year or Within Rate/Grade Increases (WRI/WGI) SF-50 within a year) do not clearly show that you meet the one-year time-in-grade requirement. That means if you submit an SF-50 that is dated within the last year, you must submit another SF-50 that is dated more than one year ago to clearly demonstrate you meet the time-in-grade requirements.

 Yes, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a promotion. I have submitted one or two SF-50(s) that show I have held the next lower GS grade or equivalent (non-GS pay system) for at least one year.
 No, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a GS grade that I currently hold or have held in the past. I have submitted an SF-50 to support this claim.
 Yes, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a promotion but I have not held the next lower grade or equivalent (non-GS pay system) for at least one year. I was recently promoted to my current grade level within the last year so I do not meet the time-in-grade requirements for promotion.
 No, I am not a GS employee and I have not been a GS employee within the last year (e.g. I am in a pay band, or I am an FWS employee, or I have never worked for the federal government) so this is not applicable to me.


3.
I am willing and able to undergo pre-appointment drug testing for illegal drug use.
 Yes
 No


4.
I am willing to complete an initial and annual physical examination that measures visual, hearing, and physical acuity.
 Yes
 No


FLETC Data Questions
1.
How did you learn about this Department of Homeland Security (DHS) job opportunity announcement?
Career Fair
Met a FLETC representative at a recruitment event
Magazine
Newspaper
Radio
TV
Poster
Private Employment Office
State Employment Office (Unemployment Office)
Agency Human Resources Development (bulletin board or other announcement)
Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college
Federal, state, or local Job Information Center
Religious organization
College, university, or career placement counselor
Friend or relative working for this agency
Friend or relative not working for this agency
USAJOBS
Professional Association
Publication
Conference
College Event
Private information service
LinkedIn
Other


2.
Select the rating level you received, as applicable to your agency's performance management system, for your last performance appraisal. Please provide a copy of your last performance appraisal.
 Outstanding | Achieved Excellence
 Exceeds Fully Successful/Highly Successful | Exceeded Expectations
 Fully Successful/Pass | Achieved Expectations
 Minimally Satisfactory/Minimally Acceptable
 Unacceptable/Fail
 None of the above


3.
Select the types of awards you have received within the last three years.
 A. Quality Step Increase
 B. Special Act or Time Off Award
 C. Performance Award
 D. Honorary Award
 E. Letter of Commendation
 F. None of the above


4.
List any education and/or training related to this position (do not provide copies of certificates).


5.
I have thoroughly reviewed the 'How to Apply/Required Documents' & 'Qualifications' sections of this Vacancy Announcement to determine which supplemental documents to submit. This may include: Transcripts to verify undergraduate/graduate education; A Current/Non-Award SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, noting current position title, series, grade, position occupied, tenure, highest salary (including basic pay) and duty location if I am a current/former Federal employee; DD-214 if I am a veteran (and SF-15/VA Letter if applicable), etc. I understand that failure to fax or upload required documents by the vacancy announcement's closing date may result in loss of consideration. Answer to this question is required.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
In order to be considered for this position you must meet one of the selective placement factors. From the list below select the statement(s) that describes your experience.
 I have held a position as a sworn law enforcement officer, or agent with full arrest authority in the prevention, detection, apprehension, detention and/or investigation of felony and/or misdemeanor violations of Federal, state, local, tribal, or military criminal laws.
 I have held a position in the 1801 occupational series.
 None of the above.


2.
Have you graduated from a law enforcement academy? If graduated from an academy, please ensure your resume contains the academy's name and location (city, state) as well as your graduation date (MM/DD/YYYY).

For U.S. Coast Guard personnel only - If you were certified through the Boarding Officer Personnel Qualifications Standard Certification Program (PQS), you must include the certification date in your resume. You may be asked to provide a copy of the certification. Failure to provide this information in your resume may result in your loss of consideration.
 If graduated from an academy, please ensure your resume contains the academy's name and location (city, state) as well as your graduation date (MM / DD / YYYY). For U.S. Coast Guard personnel only- If you were certified through the Boarding Officer Personnel Qualifications Standard Certification Program (PQS), you must include the certification date in your resume. You may be asked to provide a copy of the certification. Failure to provide this information in your resume may result in your loss of consideration.
 No


3.
From the options below, select the one statement that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for a Senior Training Advisor, GS-1801-15.

NOTE: Your resume must support your claim of specialized experience, i.e. where, when and how you performed the work, or you may be found ineligible.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-14 ), or pay band in the federal service, or equivalent experience in the private or public sector performing the following duties: (1) Managing the design, development, and implementation of complex civilian police training and organizational development for international customers; 2) Developing training and curriculum standards, policies, and procedures for adoption and implementation by local law enforcement agencies; 3) Identifying country-specific needs to develop and monitor funding requirements for in-country programs to ensure financial integrity and operational efficiency; 4) Creating bilateral and regional approaches to identify security threats and enhance information sharing within the host nation law enforcement community and neighboring regions.
 I do not have the experience described above.


4.
From the options below, select the one statement that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for a Senior Training Advisor, GS-1801-14.

NOTE: Your resume must support your claim of specialized experience, i.e. where, when and how you performed the work, or you may be found ineligible.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-13 ), or pay band in the federal service, or equivalent experience in the private or public sector performing the following duties: (1) Analyzing and providing commentary on pending legislation concerning criminal law and procedures impacting police operations.; (2) Evaluating international police training program delivery to ensure program goals are met and resolve any obstacles; (3) Preparing reports and presentations regarding adoption of law enforcement ideals.
 I do not have the experience described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, ALL of the information provided on this application is true, accurate, and complete, and that this application for employment is made in good faith. I understand that a false statement on any part of this application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that I may be punished by fine or imprisonment for falsification of my employment application (18 USC 1001). I understand that information I give may be investigated as allowed by law or Executive order.

Do you understand and agree to all the above?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙