Position Title
BOWLING CENTER MANAGER
Agency
Air Combat Command
Announcement Number
25-CBSE-12754707 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, August 26, 2025 to Monday, September 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a Department of Defense (DoD) Air Force Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) employee separated by a business-based action within the last year?  If claiming yes, a copy of the AF Form 2545 or notice of separation due to business based action must be uploaded with your application to receive priority consideration.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a Veteran?  If claiming yes, a copy of the DD 214 (member 4 or service 2 copy) or equivalent must be uploaded with your application to receive priority consideration.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Have you been involuntarily separated from the Armed Services with an honorable or general under honorable conditions discharge within the last year?  If claiming yes, a copy of your transition assistance identification card must be uploaded with your application to receive preference.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
Thank you for your interest in employment with the Department of Air Force Nonappropriated Funds. Please take a moment to answer the below assessment questions. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
1. Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. This position requires shift work to provide coverage on evenings, weekends, holidays, or special situations. Are you willing and able to work an assigned shift to meet work requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with the Department of the Air Force Nonappropriated Fund (NAF). This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience and/or education to qualify for the position of a Bowling Center Manager, NF-1101-IV.

Carefully read the following questions and select the statements that best describe your experience and/or education which demonstrate your ability to meet the requirements of this position. Your resume must support the responses to the questionnaire. Failure to respond to the questions will result in an ineligible rating.
1. This position requires the incumbent meet the following qualifications:

General Experience: Must have experience that shows progressively responsible administrative, professional, technical, or other work which has provided a general knowledge of management principles and practices, or progressively responsible experience in one or more of the functions managed by a bowling center manager.
--- AND --- Specialized Experience: In addition to the general experience, applicant must have specialized experience gained in the operation or management of a civilian or military bowling center operation. The experience must include responsibility or supervision over the various phases of a bowling center operation. Specialized experience must be at a level that shows the applicant can perform the duties and responsibilities of the position.
--- OR ---
Substitution for General and Specialized Experience: A Professional Bowling degree in an accredited College or University may be substituted for all general and specialized experience. (Transcripts must be attached to the application prior to the closing of this announcement).

Please select the statement which describes the qualifying experience and/or education you possess.
 A. I have both the General Experience and the Specialized Experience.
 B. I have a Professional Bowling degree from an accredited College or University.
 C. I do not have the experience listed above and I do not have a Professional Bowling degree.
2. Certification Statement: By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: Understand this warning; have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy; and verified your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I certify all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my resume and/or supporting documents do not support my responses to the questionnaire my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not wish to certify the accuracy of my responses; and do not wish to be considered further for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected