Position Title
Investigative Analyst (Criminal Analyst)
Agency
Immigration and Customs Enforcement
Announcement Number
HSI-12742400-DHA-JG Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, June 2, 2025 to Sunday, August 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or higher than the grade level of the vacancy
the promotion potential (full performance level) of the position you are being separated from is equal to or higher than the promotion potential of the vacancy, and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?
If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or higher than the grade level of the vacancy
the promotion potential (full performance level) of the position you are being separated from is equal to or higher than the promotion potential of the vacancy, and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 2 location(s).
 A. Phoenix, AZ
 B. Los Angeles, CA
 C. San Diego, CA
 D. San Francisco, CA
 E. Denver, CO
 F. Washington, DC
 G. Miami, FL
 H. Tampa, FL
 I. Atlanta, GA
 J. Honolulu, HI
 K. Chicago, IL
 L. New Orleans, LA
 M. Baltimore, MD
 N. Boston, MA
 O. Detroit, MI
 P. Saint Paul, MN
 Q. Kansas City, MO
 R. Las Vegas, NV
 S. Newark, NJ
 T. Buffalo, NY
 U. New York, NY
 V. Charlotte, NC
 W. Philadelphia, PA
 X. San Juan, PR
 Y. Nashville, TN
 Z. Dallas, TX
 AA. El Paso, TX
 AB. Houston, TX
 AC. San Antonio, TX
 AD. Seattle, WA
2. Please identify TWO location preferences. Note that multiple duty locations fall within the area of responsibility (AOR) of each SAC office. Please view the duty locations within each SAC AOR here. Your location preferences are NOT guaranteed. The duty locations offered will be based on the needs of the agency. If you decline the duty locations offered during the official job offer, you will be removed from further consideration.
 A. Anchorage, AK
 B. Birmingham, AL
 C. Huntsville, AL
 D. Mobile, AL
 E. Montgomery, AL
 F. Fayetteville, AR
 G. Fort Smith, AR
 H. Little Rock, AR
 I. Texarkana, AR
 J. Casa Grande, AZ
 K. Douglas, AZ
 L. Flagstaff, AZ
 M. Rio Rico, AZ
 N. Scottsdale, AZ
 O. Sells, AZ
 P. Tucson, AZ
 Q. Yuma, AZ
 R. Alameda, CA
 S. Bakersfield, CA
 T. Camarillo, CA
 U. El Centro, CA
 V. El Segundo, CA
 W. Fresno, CA
 X. Long Beach, CA
 Y. Los Angeles, CA
 Z. Monterey, CA
 AA. Oceanside, CA
 AB. Palm Springs, CA
 AC. Redding, CA
 AD. Sacramento, CA
 AE. Salinas, CA
 AF. San Bernardino, CA
 AG. San Diego, CA
 AH. San Francisco, CA
 AI. San Jose, CA
 AJ. San Ysidro, CA
 AK. Santa Ana, CA
 AL. Santa Maria, CA
 AM. Santa Rosa, CA
 AN. Stockton, CA
 AO. Alamosa, CO
 AP. Colorado Springs, CO
 AQ. Durango, CO
 AR. Glenwood Springs, CO
 AS. Grand Junction, CO
 AT. Greeley, CO
 AU. Greenwood Village, CO
 AV. Hartford, CT
 AW. Newport, CT
 AX. Dover, DE
 AY. Wilmington, DE
 AZ. Bradenton, FL
 BA. Fort Pierce, FL
 BB. Fort Myers, FL
 BC. Gainesville, FL
 BD. Homestead, FL
 BE. Jacksonville, FL
 BF. Key West, FL
 BG. Lauderhill, FL
 BH. Miami, FL
 BI. Orlando, FL
 BJ. Panama City Beach, FL
 BK. Pensacola, FL
 BL. Port Canaveral, FL
 BM. Tallahassee, FL
 BN. Tampa, FL
 BO. West Palm Beach, FL
 BP. Albany, GA
 BQ. Atlanta, GA
 BR. Dalton, GA
 BS. Gainesville, GA
 BT. Savannah, GA
 BU. Guam, GU
 BV. Hawaii Island, HI
 BW. Honolulu, HI
 BX. Cedar Rapids, IA
 BY. Des Moines, IA
 BZ. Sioux City, IA
 CA. Boise, ID
 CB. Idaho Falls, ID
 CC. Des Plaines, IL
 CD. Fairview Heights, IL
 CE. Lombard, IL
 CF. Springfield, IL
 CG. Fort Wayne, IN
 CH. Indianapolis, IN
 CI. Garden City, KS
 CJ. Wichita, KS
 CK. Bowling Green, KY
 CL. Fort Mitchell, KY
 CM. Lexington, KY
 CN. London, KY
 CO. Louisville, KY
 CP. Paducah, KY
 CQ. Baton Rouge, LA
 CR. Bossier City, LA
 CS. Houma, LA
 CT. Lafayette, LA
 CU. Lake Charles, LA
 CV. New Orleans, LA
 CW. Boston, MA
 CX. Springfield, MA
 CY. Baltimore, MD
 CZ. Cambridge, MD
 DA. Frederick, MD
 DB. Bangor, ME
 DC. Houlton, ME
 DD. Portland, ME
 DE. Detroit, MI
 DF. Grand Rapids, MI
 DG. Romulus, MI
 DH. Sault Ste Marie, MI
 DI. Duluth, MN
 DJ. Fort Snelling, MN
 DK. Kansas City, MO
 DL. Springfield, MO
 DM. St. Louis, MO
 DN. Gulfport, MS
 DO. Jackson, MS
 DP. Oxford, MS
 DQ. Billings, MT
 DR. Great Falls, MT
 DS. Helena, MT
 DT. Kalispell, MT
 DU. Cary, NC
 DV. Charlotte, NC
 DW. Greensboro, NC
 DX. Hendersonville, NC
 DY. North Charleston, NC
 DZ. Wilmington, NC
 EA. Fargo, ND
 EB. Grand Forks, ND
 EC. Minot, ND
 ED. Grand Island, NE
 EE. North Platte, NE
 EF. Omaha, NE
 EG. Manchester, NH
 EH. Egg Harbor Township, NJ
 EI. Mount Laurel, NJ
 EJ. Newark, NJ
 EK. Trenton, NJ
 EL. Albuquerque, NM
 EM. Deming, NM
 EN. Las Cruces, NM
 EO. Roswell, NM
 EP. Las Vegas, NV
 EQ. Reno, NV
 ER. Alexandria Bay, NY
 ES. Buffalo, NY
 ET. Central Islip, NY
 EU. Jamaica, NY
 EV. Latham, NY
 EW. Massena, NY
 EX. New York, NY
 EY. Newburgh, NY
 EZ. Rochester, NY
 FA. Rouses Point, NY
 FB. Syracuse, NY
 FC. Blue Ash, OH
 FD. Brooklyn Heights, OH
 FE. Westerville, OH
 FF. Oklahoma City, OK
 FG. Tulsa, OK
 FH. Eugene, OR
 FI. Medford, OR
 FJ. Portland, OR
 FK. Allentown, PA
 FL. Erie, PA
 FM. Harrisburg, PA
 FN. Philadelphia, PA
 FO. Pittsburgh, PA
 FP. Scranton, PA
 FQ. State College, PA
 FR. Wilkes Barre, PA
 FS. Barceloneta, PR
 FT. Humacao, PR
 FU. Mayaguez, PR
 FV. Ponce, PR
 FW. San Juan, PR
 FX. Warwick, RI
 FY. Saipan, SA
 FZ. Columbia, SC
 GA. Greenville, SC
 GB. Myrtle Beach, SC
 GC. Rapid City, SD
 GD. Sioux Falls, SD
 GE. Chattanooga, TN
 GF. Elizabethton, TN
 GG. Jackson, TN
 GH. Knoxville, TN
 GI. Memphis, TN
 GJ. Nashville, TN
 GK. Abilene, TX
 GL. Alpine, TX
 GM. Amarillo, TX
 GN. Austin, TX
 GO. Beaumont, TX
 GP. Corpus Christi, TX
 GQ. Del Rio, TX
 GR. Eagle Pass, TX
 GS. El Paso, TX
 GT. Falcon Heights, TX
 GU. Galveston, TX
 GV. Harlingen, TX
 GW. Irving, TX
 GX. Laredo, TX
 GY. Lubbock, TX
 GZ. McAllen, TX
 HA. Midland, TX
 HB. Presidio, TX
 HC. San Angelo, TX
 HD. San Antonio, TX
 HE. Spring, TX
 HF. Tyler, TX
 HG. Waco, TX
 HH. St. Croix, USVI
 HI. St. Thomas, USVI
 HJ. Ogden, UT
 HK. St. George, UT
 HL. West Valley, UT
 HM. Harrisonburg, VA
 HN. Norfolk, VA
 HO. Reston, VA
 HP. Richmond, VA
 HQ. Roanoke, VA
 HR. Winchester, VA
 HS. Newport, VT
 HT. Rutland, VT
 HU. South Burlington, VT
 HV. Ferndale, WA
 HW. Lakewood, WA
 HX. Pasco, WA
 HY. Port Angeles, WA
 HZ. Seattle, WA
 IA. Spokane, WA
 IB. Union Gap, WA
 IC. Wenatchee, WA
 ID. Milwaukee, WI
 IE. Casper, WY
 IF. Charleston, WV
 IG. Cheyenne, WY
 IH. Wheeling, WV
3. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service? If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
4. I acknowledge that I am solely responsible for the answers and documentation submitted in my online application. I understand that my answers cannot be altered once I have submitted my application and the announcement has closed. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information contained in my online application for Federal Employment is true, correct, complete, and made in good faith. I understand that a false or fraudulent answer to any question or item on any part of my online application may be grounds for not hiring me, or for firing me after I begin work, and may be punishable by fine or imprisonment or both (See section 1001 of title 18, United States Code).

By clicking "Yes" below, I certify that I accept responsibility for the responses and documentation submitted in my online application and that the information I have provided is true to the best of my knowledge.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Do any of your family members work for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement?

(A family member means an individual with any of the following relationships to the applicant: (1) Spouse, and parents thereof; (2) Sons and daughters, and spouses thereof; (3) Parents, and spouses thereof; (4) Brothers and sisters, and spouses thereof; (5) Grandparents and grandchildren, and spouses thereof; (6) Domestic partner and parents thereof, including domestic partners of any individual in (2) through (5) of this definition; and (7) Any individual related by blood or affinity whose close association with the employee is the equivalent of a family relationship.)

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. If the answer to the question above is yes, please provide the relative(s)' name, relationship, and the ICE office or organization for which your relative(s) works (if known).

If the answer to the question above is no, please indicate 'not applicable'. (limit 1,000 characters)
Condition of Employment
1. Mobility is a factor in this position. Are you willing to sign a Mobility Agreement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience at the GS-5 grade level or equivalent performing the following duties, under the supervision of a higher-grade Criminal Analyst or equivalent: Researching, compiling, and summarizing information and data; Evaluating the validity, accuracy, and relevance of information; Applying basic analytical techniques to define and solve problems; Operating computer equipment and programs, including word processing, spreadsheet, database, and graphics software, applications, and tools to collect, process, store, and retrieve information and data; and Working as part of a team to complete projects.
 B. I have successfully completed one (1) full year of graduate level education from an accredited college or university in a field of study which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position. One year of full-time graduate education is considered to be the number of credit hours that the school attended has determined to represent 1 year of full-time study. If that information cannot be obtained from the school, 18 semester hours should be considered as satisfying the 1 year of full-time study requirement.
 C. I have a combination of successfully completed graduate level education and specialized experience, which may be used to meet the qualification requirements for the GS-07 grade level. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work. The total combination must equal at least 100 percent of the requirement.
 D. I have successfully completed a bachelor’s degree in a field of study which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position and from an accredited university or college and claim eligibility for Superior Academic Achievement based on one of the following: (1) class standing, (2) grade-point average, or (3) election to membership in a national scholastic honor society: 1. Class standing -- Must be in the upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration, based on completed courses. or 2. Grade-point average (G.P.A.) -- Must have a grade-point average of: a. 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) as recorded on their official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or b. 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum. Please note: Grade-point averages will be rounded to one decimal place. For example, 2.95 will round to 3.0 and 2.94 will round to 2.9. or 3. Election to membership in a national scholastic honor society -- Can be considered eligible based on membership in one of the national scholastic honor societies recognized by the Association of College Honor Societies.
 E. I do not possess the education and/or specialized experience described above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected