Position Title
Archives Technician
Agency
National Archives and Records Administration
Announcement Number
DE-12779826-25-MAD Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 22, 2025 to Tuesday, September 2, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Would you accept a term appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Where did you learn about this National Archives and Records Administration job opportunity?
--Select-- 
--Select--
USAJOBS website
Community Organization
Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
Friend/Relative/Colleague
Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
Newspaper
School, College, Counselor, Career Center
Vacancy Announcement Posting
Virtual Open House/Workshop
Professional Organization
Radio/TV
LinkedIn
Twitter
Other
Short Essay Question
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Specialized Experience for the GS-7: You must have at least one year of experience at the GS-6 level or equivalent that equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. Specialized experience for this position includes:
Performing archival or related functions. (Examples may include monitoring, pulling and refiling records, reference, arrangement and description, and/or holdings maintenance) AND
Experience with records management. AND
Communicating with various audiences in a professional setting.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. For the GS-07, select the answer that best describes your experience.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Have you communicated with and assisted various audiences in an archive, library, or museum?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Which of the following types of archival customer inquiries have you performed with others as part of your job duties?  
 A. Answered basic inquiries.
 B. Gathered accurate and complete information.
 C. Provided "how to" instructions.
 D. Guided an individual through research room policies and procedures.
 E. Researched issues and provided follow up resolutions.
 F. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. Have you performed archival functions such as monitoring, pulling and refiling archival records, arrangement and description, holdings maintenance, and/or digitization on archival materials? 
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Select the following archival records management functions you have experience with.
 A. Archival Records arrangement and description.
 B. Performing archival records transfer or disposition.
 C. Performing routine holdings maintenance work, and/or assisting with archival records preservation (climate monitoring, foldering, re-boxing, etc.).
 D. Controlling the archival records physically and intellectually.
 E. Retrieving archival records for review by requesters.
 F. Monitoring the use of archival records in a research room environment to ensure holdings security.
 G. None of the above.
6. Select the response(s) below you have demonstrated experience with.
 A. Use digital cameras or scanners to digitize archival materials.
 B. Use professional grade archival cataloging software.
 C. Prepare and/or update data using computer-based spreadsheet software (such as Microsoft Excel or Microsoft Access).
 D. Use dataloggers and appropriate software to track environmental conditions in archival collections facilities.
 E. None of the above.
7. Select the following digital imaging project functions you have performed:
 A. Converted analog textual records, photographs, or maps into digital formats.
 B. Tracked, transferred, and stored digital files.
 C. Performed quality control on digital image files.
 D. Prepare and/or update data using computer based spreadsheet software (such as Microsoft Excel or Microsoft Access).
 E. Provided advice regarding image capture, image quality enhancement, extracting data, or preparing databases.
 F. None of the above.
8. Choose the one statement that best describes your experience using systems to retrieve information and/or using that information to physically locate items.
 A. I have experience in using systems to locate information and/or using information retrieved from systems to locate items, but I have not completed work in this area.
 B. With supervision, I have used systems to locate information and/or used information retrieved from systems to locate items.
 C. I have independently used systems to locate information and/or used information retrieved from systems to locate items.
 D. Both independently used systems to locate information and/or used information retrieved from systems to locate items, and trained others to do the same.
 E. None of the above. None of the above. None of the above.
9. Select the response(s) below you have demonstrated experience with.
 A. Connecting, calibrating, and properly operating digital imaging hardware (scanners, printers, computers, servers).
 B. Utilizing computer imaging software programs .
 C. Using image analysis software to measure image quality defects of scanners.
 D. Calibrating scanners, cameras, or printers using color management programs.
 E. None of the above.
10. Which software application (s) are you proficient with (proficiency means you understand and utilize a major part of the system's functionality/capabilities)? (Select all that apply)
 A. Microsoft Office Suite (Word, Excel, PowerPoint).
 B. Microsoft Access.
 C. Google Suite (Docs, Sheets, Slides).
 D. Paper Scan.
 E. Flatbed Scanning Software.
 F. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
11. Do you have experience maintaining archival records in accordance with established instructions on how they are to be organized (e.g., arranging them by series, alphabetically, numerically, by date, etc.)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Select from the functions below those that you have performed.
 A. Maintain archival filing systems.
 B. Track date sensitive reference requests, or other information requiring public response using an automated or manual tracking system.
 C. Evaluate incoming communications to determine whether an urgent response is required.
 D. Respond to reference requests from the public and researchers.
 E. Analyze misfiled archival documents to determine the proper location for refile.
 F. Utilize preservation techniques to safely handle archival records.
 G. Assemble and distribute completed work products.
 H. Monitored a research room.
 I. None of the above.
13. Which one of the following statements reflects your experience working on teams charged with carrying out assignments or projects?
 A. I have been a member of a team that has completed work assignments or projects.
 B. I have led a team that has completed work assignments or projects.
 C. None of the above. None of the above. None of the above.
14. I have performed which of the following activities to plan and/or organize work to meet goals and objectives?
 A. Prioritized multiple assignments or tasks.
 B. Estimated work hours and resources required to complete assigned tasks.
 C. Divided large/extended tasks into smaller components.
 D. Developed and documented project plans and checklists to track assignments or tasks.
 E. Coordinated resources to achieve project goals and deliverables.
 F. None of the above.
15. Which of the following describes your experience identifying problems related to the operation or management of an archival collection?
 A. Identify and resolve problems with archival description.
 B. Identify and improve existing archival catalog records issues by standardization and description enhancement.
 C. Identify condition and storage issues in archival collections.
 D. Make recommendations for treatment of archival collection storage issues based on best practice and document preservation.
 E. None of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected