Position Title
Human Resources Assistant
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
MYPT-25-12801111 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 15, 2025 to Monday, September 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. Are you a current CNIC MWR employee? If no, are you claiming Military Spouse Preference and have uploaded all supporting documents?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the position of NAF Human Resources Assistant NF-0203-03. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. Answers must be supported by resume.
1. Please indicate your current level of working experience in the field of Human Resources?
 A. I have three (3) of more years of working experience in the Human Resources field.
 B. I have between one (1) and three (3) years of working experience in the Human Resources field.
 C. I have less than one (1) year of working experience in the Human Resources field.
 D. I have no experience in the Human Resources field but do hold a degree in Human Resources.
 E. I have no working experience nor education in the Human Resources field.
2. What type of organizations have you provided HR services to? Select all that apply. (Must be supported by your Personnel Action Report (PAR), SF50 or Equivalent to include resume)
 A. Private business or private sector organization.
 B. Department of Defense Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF).
 C. Department of Defense Appropriated Funds (APF/GS).
 D. Government Agency outside of the Department of Defense (DOD).
 E. I do not have any experience in Human Resources.
3. Please select ALL the Human Resources Information System(s) that you have utilized to include recruitment tools, payroll systems and background check programs, etc.
 A. E-APP
 B. ADP
 C. KRONOS
 D. FEDHR
 E. SAP HR
 F. USA Staffing
 G. Central Suitability Office (CSO)
 H. Does not apply.
4. My experience in the area of recruitment/staffing of government employees can best be described as:
 A. I have more than two (2) years private sector experience with the above.
 B. I have less than two (2) years private sector experience with the above.
 C. I have more than two (2) years APF (GS) experience with the above.
 D. I have less than two (2) years APF (GS) experience with the above.
 E. I have more than two (2) years Non-Appropriated Fund (NAF) experience with the above.
 F. I have less than two (2) years Non-Appropriated Fund (NAF) experience with the above.
 G. I have no experience as described above.
5. My experience onboarding new employees, to include initiating background investigations, fingerprinting, creating OPF's etc. can best be described as:
 A. I have less than one (1) year of experience with the above.
 B. I have between one (1) and three (3) years of experience with the above.
 C. I have three (3) or more years of experience with the above.
 D. I have no experience.
6. How many years of experience do you possess grading applicants, validating resumes, and using this data to create hiring certificates?
 A. I have less than one (1) year of documented experience in grading applicants, validating resumes and using data to create hiring certificates.
 B. I have between one (1) and three (3) years of documented experience in grading applicants, validating resumes and using data to create hiring certificates.
 C. I have between three (3) and four (4) years of documented experience in grading applicants, validating resumes and using data to create hiring certificates.
 D. I have more than four (4) years of documented experience in grading applicants, validating resumes and using data to create hiring certificates.
 E. I do not have this experience.
7. Select the statement that best describes your level of experience in providing customer service within the Human Resources arena.
 A. I provide routine services or standardized products or materials to customers; customer contact is usually minimal of brief.
 B. I provide information to customers and inform them about the agency's services or products.
 C. I work with customers to solve problems or complaints to appropriate source.
 D. I maintain an ongoing relationship with customers/clients that includes, identifying needs or problems and taking corrective action.
 E. None of the above.
8. Please select ALL additional systems that you have utilized or are familiar with within the Department of Defense (DoD)
 A. AMAG
 B. CITRIX
 C. ESAMS
 D. TWMS
 E. E-VERIFY
 F. CNIC LMS
 G. GATEWAY 2.0 (G2)
 H. Other systems not listed but documented in resume.
 I. None.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected