Position Title
CONTRACT SPECIALIST
Agency
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
Announcement Number
KC-25-DH-12770714HD Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 28, 2025 to Thursday, August 7, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.

Career Transition Assistance Plan:  Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?

I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced or surplused  from the agency hiring for this position; and

I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; and
I am currently in a position at the same grade level or higher than the position being announced; and
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan:  Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?

I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position; and
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; and
I am currently in a position at the same grade level or higher than the position being announced; and
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
For items 1 and 2, please read the following statements carefully. Your response to the following questions will determine whether you will be eligible for this position or not. If you respond "No" to any question in this section, you will not be eligible for consideration for this position.
1. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire will be true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I provide may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.

 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire will be true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
2. Are you willing to submit to an initial and periodic background investigation, including a fingerprint check and a credit check?

 A. Yes
 B. No
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.
3. Select the ONE response that best describes the education you possess that demonstrates you meet the Basic Qualification Requirement for the Contract Specialist, GS-1102-13.

 A. I have at least 4 years of experience in contracting or related positions AND a BA/BS degree with a major in any field that is supplemented by at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. This education was obtained at an accredited college or university. NOTE: You must provide legible transcripts as verification of your education.
 B. I was employed in a GS-1102-13 position with the Federal Government on January 1, 2000, and I meet the specialized experience as it is stated in this vacancy announcement. If using this exception to qualify you MUST submit an SF-50 that supports the title, series, and grade occupied on 01/01/2000.
 C. I do not have education of the type and/or amount described in item A, and I do not qualify for the exception described in item B.
4. Do you possess a current Federal Acquisition Certification - Contracting (FAC-C) Professional Certificate OR a current DoD Contracting Professional Certification?

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. For the GS-13: Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience that is equivalent in difficulty and complexity to the GS-12 level in the Federal service? Specialized experience is that which has equipped the applicant with the competencies to successfully perform the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the position to be filled. Specialized experience for this position includes the following: (1) Performing the full range of complex procurement and contracting functions to include contract negotiation, administration and termination; (2) Contracts, task orders, delivery orders and Interagency Agreements, and other contractual transactions to obtain the best value for the customer; (3) Performing life cycle costing and analysis for an unusually large amount of products and services with a large dollar value associated with procurement; (4) Developing procurement plans including analyzing procurement requirements, marketing conditions, the contractor's responsibility, and availability of products/services; (5) Reconciling contractual delivery times, terms and conditions; (6) Developing new terms and conditions or other innovations necessary to satisfy the unique procurement requirements and conditions; and (7) Organizing and implementing strategically sourced contracts.

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected