Position Title
Addiction Therapist (Licensed Masters) - Substance Use Disorder
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSY-12794924-25-KA Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 5, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. A current, valid state-issued Driver's License is required for this position. NOTE: We cannot accept photographs, therefore; please do not submit a copy of your license with your application package. If an interview is requested, you will be required to provide a copy of your current, valid state-issued Driver's License.

Do you possess a current and valid state-issued driver's license?
 A. Yes
 B. No
If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
4. Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Name and Contact Information
Job title
Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2021)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week if part-time)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held.
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

Do you confirm that the above information is clearly stated for each work entry you are claiming experience for, and that each entry is full time unless otherwise annotated with part-time hours?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I understand that this position is not remote; if selected, I understand I am required to be on-site at a VISN 23 facility and I am able to physically report to a VISN 23 facility. This is not negotiable.
Please select 'no' if you are not interested in a position on-site within VISN 23.
 A. Yes
 B. No
If applying as an internal or status candidate with current or former Federal Service, you must provide a copy of your most recent non-award SF-50, "Notification of Personnel Action", showing the highest grade or promotion potential held, dated within the last year.

All qualifying experience you possess must be clearly described in your application package. We will not make assumptions when reviewing applications. Failure to demonstrate your experience and knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) in your application may result in disqualification. It is strongly recommended that you write to each KSA to demonstrate how you have gained each one in your application package or on a supplemental document. Please see the announcement for KSA requirements.

Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. BASIC REQUIREMENTS:
Citizenship. Be a citizen of the United States (U.S.). Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with 38 U.S.C. § 7407(a).
Physical Standards. You will be asked to participate in a pre-employment examination or evaluation as part of the pre-employment process for this position. Questions about physical demands or environmental factors may be addressed at the time of evaluation or examination. See VA Directive and Handbook 5019, Employee Occupational Health Service for requirements.
English Language Proficiency. LMAT candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f).
Education. (1) Hold a master's degree or higher in drug and alcohol studies or related behavioral health field from an accredited college or university.
Foreign Education. There is no substitution for foreign education for this occupation; therefore, foreign education evaluation is not applicable.
Licensure. Individuals appointed or reassigned to an LMAT position must possess a full, current, and unrestricted license in a jurisdiction for independent practice in the field of Alcohol and Drug Treatment.
Exception. The Secretary or designee may waive the licensure requirement for selectees who are otherwise qualified, pending state acceptance of completion of state prerequisites at the master's level. Licensures can be waived for three years from the date of employment. This exception is allowed on the condition that non-licensed LMATs appointed on this basis provide care only under the clinical supervision of an LMAT from the designated assignments to provide clinical supervision. Non-licensed LMAT applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements may be appointed as LMATs under the authority of 38 U.S.C.§ 7401(3). This exception applies only at the GS-09 entry grade level and individuals may not be promoted/converted until they obtain the required license. For grades/assignments at or above the full performance level, candidates must be licensed at the master's level.
Grandfathering Provision. All persons employed in VHA in this occupational series or another occupational series and performing the duties as described in the qualification standard on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade held, including positive education, credential or certification that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation.

Do you meet all of the basic requirements for this position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. GS-9 Addiction Therapist (Licensed Master's)

(1) Education, License and Experience. The GS-09 grade level is the entry grade level for LMATs who have:
(a) Less than one year of experience post licensure; OR,
(b) LMATs at the master's level who are graduates not yet licensed at the independent practice (Journey) level. Unlicensed LMATs at the GS-09 grade level must have completed the required education listed in paragraph 1.a. above and are working toward obtaining a full, current, and unrestricted license in a jurisdiction for independent practice in the field of Alcohol and Drug Treatment.

(2) Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs). In addition to the basic requirements, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs.
(a) Knowledge of coexisting medical or other mental health disorders and the interrelationship of SUDs.
(b) Knowledge of basic recovery programs and resources.
(c) Skill in providing individual and group therapy, including using certain SUD Evidenced-Based Therapy (EBTs).
(d) Skill in developing and maintaining effective working or therapeutic relationships with multidisciplinary staff, Veterans and their families, and community resources to ensure appropriate referrals.
(e) Ability to complete the assessment of substance use disorders, treatment/recovery planning and continuing care planning.
(f) Ability to identify patients who are in psychological distress consistent with VA national policy and within scope of certification and secure appropriate interventions.

Do you meet all GS-9 grade requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. GS-11 Addiction Therapist (Licensed Master's)

(1) Experience. One year of creditable experience comparable to the next lower grade.

(2) Licensure. Candidates must possess a full, current and unrestricted license in a State for independent practice in the field of Alcohol and Drug Treatment.

(3) NOTE: Applicants who meet the qualifications requirements for an AT at the full performance level, who have a minimum of one year experience at that level and who have obtained the master's degree and license will be qualified at the GS-11 level.

(4) Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs). In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
(a) Skill to independently complete assessments of substance use disorders, treatment planning and continued care planning.
(b) Skill to apply the principles, concepts and methods of counseling and therapies used in the treatment of individuals with SUDs.
(c) Skill to collaborate and consult on medical or other psychiatric disorders as interrelated to SUDs.
(d) Ability to apply various community-based recovery programs and resources in a treatment plan.

Do you meet the GS-11 grade requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected