Position Title
Supervisor Merchant Marine Eval Spec
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
20250606-21166-9345-DB-ST Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 22, 2025 to Sunday, August 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Current Federal Employee - Merit Promotion

Do you wish to be considered as a current Federal employee who meets one of the following criteria?

In a permanent position that is in the competitive service (see block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type)
OR
With an excepted service agency but can be hired into the competitive service because you meet the criteria of an Interchange Agreement. Additional information about current Interchange Agreements can be found here.
Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If your position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), it is recommended that you also include the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Current Federal Employee - Noncompetitive

Do you wish to be considered as a current Federal employee who meets one of the following criteria? I have held, or currently hold either:

A permanent position in the competitive service (see block #34 of your SF-50) with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised
OR
An appointment with an excepted service agency but can be hired into the competitive service because I meet the criteria of an Interchange Agreement, with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised. Additional information about current Interchange Agreements can be found here.
Note: If your position referenced above is not on the GS pay scale, your pay must be at or above the representative rate (step 04) of the full performance level of this position. Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and full performance level.
If your position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block 34 of your SF-50), it is recommended that you also include the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND you:

• have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more; OR,

• are retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more?

 For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources:  https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/veterans/.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. You must also submit the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5.

Are you a spouse of an Armed Forces service member who is appointable under Non-Competitive EO 13473 Civil Service Appointment of Military Spouses? You are eligible if you:

Are married to an active-duty service member who is ordered to active duty for more than 180 consecutive days; OR
Are the spouse of a service member who is 100% disabled due to a service-connected injury; OR
Are an un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while on active duty.

You are required to support your claim with the documents below:

All military spouses must submit documentation verifying marriage to the service member (e.g., marriage certificate); AND
If you are married to an active-duty service member, documentation must include current military orders (e.g., statement of service) to support active-duty service for more than 180 consecutive days; OR
If you are a spouse of a 100% disabled service member, documentation must include service member's DD-214 and 100% service disability (e.g., VA Letter); OR
If you are an un-remarried widow or widower of a service member killed while on active duty, documentation must include verification of service member's death while on active duty (e.g., DD-1300). For more information, please see OPM's Questions and Answers for Noncompetitive Appointment of Certain Military Spouses. 

Military spouses

Spouses of active-duty military members, spouses of former military members who are 100% disabled as documented by the Department of Veterans Affairs, or spouses of deceased members of the Armed Forces who have never remarried is eligible for remote work.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Were you employed overseas as an Appropriated Fund employee AND did you:

• complete 52 weeks of creditable overseas service in an appropriated fund position(s) as a family member during the time you accompanied a sponsor officially assigned to an overseas area; AND,
• receive a fully successful or better (or equivalent) performance rating; AND,
• return to the United States to resume residence less than 3 years ago? 

For more information, review USAJOBS Former Overseas Employees Resources:
https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/former-overseas-employees/ 

 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, and performance appraisal.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Former Federal Employee - Merit Promotion

Do you wish to be considered as a former Federal Employee in the civilian service who previously held a position that was in the competitive service and is eligible to be reinstated? (See block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type) More information about the eligibility requirements for reinstatement can be found here. Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and full performance level.
If your position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), it is recommended that you also include the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment. It is also recommended that you submit the SF-50 showing your separation.
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Former Federal Employee - Noncompetitive

Do you wish to be considered as a former Federal employee who previously held a permanent position that was in the competitive service (see block #34 of your SF-50) with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised? NoteNote: If your position referenced above is not on the GS pay scale, your pay must be at or above the representative rate (step 04) of the full performance level of this position. Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and full performance level.
If your position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block 34 of your SF-50), it is recommended that you also include the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months?
 
- OR -
 
Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and are requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student or other experience related to this position?
 
- OR -
 
Are you a current or former Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your description of service or other proof of non-competitive eligibility. If you are a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who is requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility, please also provide the necessary documentation to support your request.
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management? 

For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=InterchangeAgreementsWithOtherMeritSystems

-OR-

Are you a current: 
Postal Career Service Employee
Postal Rate Commission Employee
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee
Veteran Heath Administration
Non-appropriated Fund (NAF) employees of the Department of Defense
Tennessee Valley Authority
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Federal Aviation Administration
Department of Homeland Security, Transportation Security Administration
AmeriCorps formerly Corporation for National and Community Service
For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated by U.S. Office of Personnel Management.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=MiscellaneousAuthoritiesNotRegulated .  

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for Schedule A Disability appointments?


If eligible, provide proof of disability with appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.


For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:

• served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (Note: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
• are entitled to veterans' preference?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources. USAJOBS Veterans resources

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. To meet the minimum qualifications for the GS-0080-12 position, you must have at least 52 weeks of specialized experience at the GS-11 level in the federal service or an equivalent level. Select the statement below that best represents your specialized experience. Your resume and/or supporting documentation must clearly support your responses to the questionnaire. Failure to provide support for your responses may result in an adjustment to your final rating or you may be removed from consideration.
 A. Yes, I have at least one year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the GS-11 level or equivalent.
 B. No, I do not meet the above specialized experience requirement.
2. Which of the following best describes your experience leading teams, prioritizing goals and objectives to achieve mission requirements?
 A. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
3. Which supervisory duties have you performed?
 A. Planned/prioritized work balanced and assigned work of subordinates.
 B. Assigned balanced workloads to subordinates
 C. Established the workflow for an office
 D. Monitored the progress and completion of work
 E. Evaluated individual job performance of subordinates
 F. Made decisions on leave usage
 G. Developed position descriptions to hire personnel
 H. Counseled employees on methods to improve job performance.
 I. Administered disciplinary actions
 J. Resolved conflicts /problems among subordinates
 K. Promoted employees
 L. None of the above
4. It is preferred that applicants for this position be familiar with the USCG overall mission, objectives and programs, including the organization, management and leadership process by which the USCG accomplishes its missions. Please select one of the following:
 A. Yes, I do have knowledge of the USCG overall mission, objectives and programs, including the organization, management and leadership process by which the USCG accomplishes its missions.
 B. No I do not have knowledge as described above.
5. Do you have experience interpreting laws, regulations, and policy relative to merchant mariner qualifications and merchant vessel operations?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Have you integrated Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) concepts, principles, and techniques?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience communicating with multiple stakeholders inside and outside your organization (e.g., program office customer, senior management, and internal offices)?
 A. I have experience in participating with others in a work relationship to develop information for a given purpose (e.g., developed materials for presentation by senior management).
 B. I have experience in researching, preparing and presenting materials in meetings or conferences to technical representatives of private industry/contractors and with representatives of the agency or other agencies.
 C. I have experience leading as the agency representative or spokesperson in meetings or conferences in working with agency technical staff and private industry/contractors to negotiate modifications or resolve issues.
 D. I have experience as the main agency spokesperson and/or decision-maker (subject matter expert) for analyzing and advising on changes in policies that affect program objectives, resolving controversial issues with technical staff that impact customer service, or negotiating solutions with technical staff and private industry/contractors on material related to data quality, data accuracy, and reporting function
 E. I do not have experience in this area
8. Which choices reflect your experience in customer service?
 A. I have coordinated/conducted meetings with managers and staff to ensure customers` needs are met.
 B. I have established priorities to meet customer needs.
 C. I have evaluated and modified processes to improve and ensure quality customer service.
 D. I have directly investigated and resolved customer issues.
 E. I have provided customer service that was positively recognized by a colleague, supervisor or the customer.
 F. None of the above.
9. Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals.
 A. Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships.
 B. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives.
 C. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties.
 D. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance.
 E. I do not have this type of experience.
10. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience presenting technical information in a clear and concise manner that was easily understood by the target audience?
 A. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
11. For which circumstances have you developed effective solutions?
 A. A routine technical issue that you have handled in the past
 B. A complicated technical issue that you have handled in the past
 C. A technical issue that you have never seen before on a piece of equipment with which you are familiar
 D. A technical issue that you have never seen before on a piece of equipment with which you are NOT familiar
 E. None of the above
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected