Position Title
LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
Agency
Air Force Elements, U.S. Transportation Command
Announcement Number
USTC-25-12771298-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 29, 2025 to Sunday, August 10, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes your highest-level of experience for the Logistics Management Specialist position. To be creditable, specialized experience must be at the next lower grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. Read all the statements below completely before making your selection.

 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade-level (GS-12) in the federal service which is in or directly related to the line of work of the position. Creditable specialized experience includes: - Utilize programs, procedures and analysis to identify gaps and limitations related to mobility infrastructure fixed facilities, including aerial and seaports, force generation or agreements. Inform command priorities, requirements, and anticipate and identify courses of action to address issues associated with mobility requirements, to include infrastructure, forces or agreements. Communicate effectively with all levels of personnel, including officials in OSD, the Joint Staff, Combatant Commands, or other government agencies.
 B. I do not possess the required experience to qualify for this position.
2. From the following responses, please select the statements that best describe your experience developing DoD mobility infrastructure strategies and requirements (select all that apply):

 A. Provided expertise related to defense transportation and logistics policy and issues.
 B. Stayed abreast of issues such as improvement of fuel systems, runway/taxiways, cargo and passenger facilities.
 C. Synchronized DoD mobility strategies with those of allied governments.
 D. Evaluated new technological development for potential application to the Defense Transportation System (DTS).
 E. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response).
3. I have interacted with the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy (OUSD/P), the Joint Staff, the Services, Unified Commands, Transportation Component Commands (TCCs), and other federal agencies and commercial transportation companies to lead annual review and development of an agencies function posture plan to align forces, footprint, and agreements.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience researching, analyzing, and acting on complex commercial, inter-service, intermodal, and international transportation management, transportation operations, and logistics issues.

 A. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing these tasks.
 B. I have completed formal education or training in performing these tasks but have not yet performed them on the job.
 C. These tasks have been a central or major part of my work. I have performed them myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of these tasks and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing these tasks.
 D. I have performed these tasks on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 E. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee.
5. From the following responses, please select the statements that best describe your experience assessing readiness of mobility infrastructure at critical nodes identified in operation plans, hypothetical scenarios, or mobility requirements (select all that apply):

 A. Integrated large amounts of detailed information to formulate recommendations and make decisions concerning the feasibility of satisfying user requirements with DOD transportation regulations.
 B. Planned, developed and coordinated the implementation of changes.
 C. Developed and presented briefings to high level management concerning the Global Distribution Network (GDN) and policy and procedures issues.
 D. Provided responsive air, land, and sea transportation support to deploy, sustain, and redeploy US military forces worldwide during peace and wartime.
 E. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response).
6. I have developed military construction products and future Global Distribution Network (GDN) infrastructure requirements for CONUS and overseas.

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience determining infrastructure requirements to be pursued in the Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution (PPBE) process through Program Budget Review (PBR), Service program reviews, and other appropriate forums.

 A. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing these tasks.
 B. I have completed formal education or training in performing these tasks but have not yet performed them on the job.
 C. These tasks have been a central or major part of my work. I have performed them myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of these tasks and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing these tasks.
 D. I have performed these tasks on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 E. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee.
8. I have researched DOD policy, guidance from geographic commands, and infrastructure requirements to provide direction to Transportation Component Commands (TCCs) relative to infrastructure investments.

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience analyzing CONUS and overseas infrastructure, determining shortfalls, and shaping positions addressing command needs.

 A. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing these tasks.
 B. I have completed formal education or training in performing these tasks but have not yet performed them on the job.
 C. These tasks have been a central or major part of my work. I have performed them myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of these tasks and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing these tasks.
 D. I have performed these tasks on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 E. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee.
10. From the following responses, please select the statements that best describe your experience representing an agency at conferences and meetings and articulating command positions. (select all that apply):

 A. Prepared a variety of communications products, such as articles, papers, and briefings, intended for audiences of all levels including senior government officials or industry executives.
 B. Evaluated requirements and issues that are important to providing transportation information critical to force projection.
 C. Reviewed externally developed readiness-related documents for accuracy, such as Defense Planning Guidance drafts.
 D. Assimilated, analyzed, and evaluated data to formulate command positions; articulated and defended command requirements, and presented reports in final format.
 E. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response).
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected