Position Title
Wildland Firefighter (Fire Management Planning) - Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Bureau of Land Management
Announcement Number
FADHA-25-12764415-LE Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 17, 2025 to Wednesday, July 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Career Transition Assistance Plan:  Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced or surplused from the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which I have been or will be separated; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.   
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan: Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am currently in a position at the same grade level or higher than the position being announced; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
9
11
Survey Questions
1. My resume contains hours worked per week for each season and position held. For example, 1 year of experience is equivalent to 12 months at 40 hours per week (full-time). Part-time hours are prorated. I understand that I will not receive any credit for a position listed that does not include hours worked per week.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. My resume contains the beginning and ending dates (month/year to month/year) and grade level (if federal service) for each period of work experience/employment. I understand failure to adequately include this information may affect my qualification determination for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I consent to the release of information about my ability and fitness for Federal employment by employers, schools, law enforcement agencies, and other individuals and organizations to investigators, human resource specialists, and other authorized employees or representatives of the Federal Government. I understand that for some other sources of information, a separate specific release may be needed, and I may be contacted for such a release at a later date.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I have read the "How to Apply" & "Required Documents" sections and understand that failure to submit any required documents may result in my being found not qualified.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I understand that additional selections may be made from this vacancy, within the same geographical area, by other bureaus from within the DOI, through shared recruiting activities, and my application may be shown to multiple hiring offices. Additional selections for similar positions across the entire Department of the Interior within the local commuting area(s) identified in this vacancy announcement may be made. By applying, I agree to have my application shared with any interested selecting official(s) within the DOI. There is no option to opt-out as my information will not be shared with other hiring agencies outside of the DOI. Applying to this announcement does not replace the need to apply to other job opportunity announcements for which you wish to receive consideration.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. I understand that I must ensure my resume, supporting documents (SF-50 or other official document to verify date of birth), transcripts, fire qualifications (IQCS), etc., are not password protected or contain redacted information that could make my application package ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported in your resume and supporting documents.
1. I possess a valid current State driver's license.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I qualify for the GW-09 level because I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to GW/GS-08 in the federal service. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience qualifying for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I qualify for the GW-11 level because:
 A. I am a current or former federal employee who served in a competitive or excepted appointment, and I have on year of specialized experience equivalent to the GW/GS-09 level in the Federal service. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience to qualify for the position.
 B. I am not a current federal employee or have never been a federal employee who served in a competitive or excepted appointment, and I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GW/GS-10 level in the Federal service. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience to qualify for this position.
 C. I do not meet the above responses.
4. Indicate your level of experience providing input into resource management plans, fire management plans, monitoring plans, vegetation, and wildlife management plans to ensure the role of fire is considered and effects are accurately displayed.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
5. Select the statement that best describes your experience with fire management and natural resource management programs applying the concepts, principles and practices of multiple use management and planning.

 A. I have experience managing both a fire management and natural resource management program at the National or Headquarters level.
 B. I have experience managing both a fire management and natural resource management program at the State or regional level.
 C. I have experience managing both a fire management and natural resource program at the sub-regional, District or Field Office level.
 D. I have experience managing either a fire management or natural resource program at the sub-regional, District or Field Office level.
 E. None of the above.
6. Select all of the wildland fire program areas where you have professional expertise and provided advice to land managers:

 A. National Environmental Policy Act
 B. Prescribed Fire
 C. Fire Suppression
 D. Fuels Management
 E. Post-fire Recovery
 F. Fire Hazard and Risk Analysis
 G. Fire Management Planning
 H. Aviation Management
 I. None of the above.
7. Select all of the fire program management elements you have performed.

 A. Reviewing and evaluating fire management plans for ecological soundness and technical adequacy.
 B. Conducting field inspections before and after prescribed or wildland fires to determine if resource objectives were achieved and/or evaluate the effectiveness of actions taken.
 C. Developing analyses on the ecological role of fire and its use and/or exclusion, and smoke management.
 D. None of the above.
8. Select all of the statements that best describe your experience integrating fire and fuels management information with other natural resource management programs.

 A. I have integrated fire, fuels, and natural resource management information into the development of fire or resource management policies at the interagency, national, or regional level.
 B. I have reviewed or overseen the development of integrated fire, fuels, and natural resource management information as part of the development of fire or resource management plans.
 C. I have developed fire or resource management plans which have integrated fire, fuels, and natural resource information.
 D. I have integrated fire, fuels, and natural resource information in developing solutions to complex fire and fuels management issues.
 E. I have provided oversight to the development of solutions to fire and fuels management issues in a natural resource context.
 F. None of the above.
9. Select each of the tasks you independently perform using fire behavior prediction systems and their applications:

 A. I develop preparedness planning levels.
 B. I predict fire season severity.
 C. I predict extreme fire behavior potential.
 D. I perform one or more of the above tasks with review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. None of the above.
10. Select the level of experience you have in utilizing ArcGIS software.

 A. I have no GIS skills.
 B. I am a basic GIS user, can create maps, and can obtain basic data.
 C. I am an intermediate GIS user, can conduct relatively simple GIS analysis, and I can perform simple editing.
 D. I am an advanced GIS user, I can conduct complex GIS analysis, edit, create multiple data types, and I can create professional maps for internal and external use.
 E. I am an expert GIS user, I can conduct advanced GIS analysis in vector and raster environments, design and maintain geodatabases, and I have the ability to teach and instruct others on GIS and cartography.
11. Select each type of experience you have had in working with GIS programs and Geospatial databases.

 A. Enter GIS attribute data according to established standards.
 B. Edit GIS data in a personal Geodatabase.
 C. Complete simple queries on a single theme in a GIS database based on geographic location or attributes.
 D. Edit digital GIS feature and attribute data using ArcGIS software.
 E. Create digital GIS features an attribute data using ArcGIS software.
 F. Create digital metadata using ArcGIS software to federal standards.
 G. Use naming conventions and an established directory structure.
 H. Create and print maps digitally from a GIS database with care to adhere to cartographic principles and standards of labels, collar data, color, symbology, scale, and other elements.
 I. None of the above.
12. Select all of the fire management planning systems in which you have education and/or experience.

 A. Fire Family Plus
 B. Wildland Fire Decision Support System (WFDSS)
 C. Fire Program Analysis (FPA)
 D. National Fire Plan Operations and Reporting System (NFPORS)
 E. Fuels Treatment Effectiveness Monitoring (FTEM)
 F. Weather Information Management System (WIMS)
 G. None of the above.
13. Select the statement that best describes your supervisory/leadership experience in planning, organizing, and assigning work to subordinates to meet workload accomplishments.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
14. Select all the statements from below that best describe your experience working as a supervisor, team lead, project manager or reviewing the work of others.

 A. I provide general standing instructions on recurring assignments by indicating what is to be done, applicable policies, procedures, and methods to follow, data and information required, quality and quantity of work expected, priority of assignments, and deadlines.
 B. I establish qualitative and quantitative measures for the performance and outcomes of the unit.
 C. I provide specific instructions for new, difficult, or special assignments including suggested procedures, sources of information including the location and type of written material that may be used as an aid in completing the assignment.
 D. I review the work of others for missing or incompatible information.
 E. I assure that finished work and methods used are technically accurate and in compliance with established instructions, methods, procedures, and deadlines.
 F. I assign work with standing instructions on objectives, priorities, and deadlines and provided guidance for unusually involved situations.
 G. I evaluate completed work for overall technical soundness and conformance to agency policies, legal, or system requirements.
 H. I assess the level of customer service provided by my organization.
 I. I provide training to other employees or provide assistance to others who need help with assignments not specifically covered by general instructions or regulations.
 J. None of the above.
15. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected