Position Title
Emergency Management Specialist (Response)
Agency
Federal Emergency Management Agency
Announcement Number
FEMA-KR-12794212-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 5, 2025 to Monday, September 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. The following questions will be used to determine your eligibility for consideration under this job opportunity announcement. Please select YES to all eligibility question(s) which apply.

If you're uncertain you meet an eligibility, we suggest answering yes. Your application will only be considered under the applicable eligibilities you have selected. If you respond NO to all eligibility questions below, your application will not be considered under this announcement.

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration for EACH selected eligibility. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will not be considered.
1. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)

Are you a current or former FEMA Stafford Act employee eligible under the Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)?

Current and former FEMA Stafford Act employees who can document 64 or more hours of paid time, per pay period, with no breaks in service* for 78 or more consecutive pay periods since August 1, 2014, are eligible to be considered for this Merit Promotion Job Opportunity Announcement. (*Note: A "break in service" is defined as 3 or more days in non-pay status, except as allowed under 5 CFR § 315.201(b)(3)(ii) for special circumstances such as military deployment, etc.).

To verify eligibility, you must submit: 
"Notice of DRRA Eligibility" provided by OCHCO.  If you believe you're eligible, but have not received your notice, please reach out to the HR Specialist listed in the announcement.
Your FEMA SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your appointment in the excepted service under the Stafford Act.  We recommend attaching a SF-50 which indicates your highest grade and step.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Current FEMA Employee

Are you a current FEMA employee who currently holds OR has previously held a permanent (not time limited) position in the competitive service?

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your permanent competitive status.  Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions.  You may need to submit more than one SF-50.  Your SF-50 must reflect:
Block 24 - Tenure:  1 - Permanent (career) or 2 - Conditional: AND
Block 34 - Position Occupied:  1 - Competitive Service
If you previously held a career or career conditional appointment, you must provide your current SF-50 and your SF-50 which shows competitive status eligibility.
Please do not submit an award SF-50, as it might not indicate your grade level and step.  
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. FEMA Employees Only Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)
Are you a current or former FEMA employee who is considered displaced or surplus (you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction in Force)?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, your most recent performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current FEMA employee?
 A. I'm a current FEMA Local Hire Employee
 B. I'm a current FEMA Reservist Employee
 C. I'm a current FEMA CORE Employee
 D. I'm a current FEMA PFT Employee
 E. I'm a current FEMA Senior Executive Service Employee
 F. I'm not a current FEMA Employee
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
11
12
2. How did you hear about this Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) job opportunity?
 A. USAJOBS
 B. FEMA's Social Media (Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Online Job board (Indeed, Zip Recruiter, etc.)
 D. FEMA.gov Careers Website
 E. FEMA Virtual Hiring Event
 F. FEMA On-Site Hiring Event
 G. College/University/Alumni Organization
 H. FEMA Employee Referral
 I. Other
3. Are you a retiree receiving a federal annuity (either military or civilian)? Or have you accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years? (Select all that apply.)
 A. Yes, I'm receiving a military annuity.
 B. Yes, I'm receiving a civilian annuity.
 C. Yes, I've received a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
 D. No, I am not receiving a federal annuity and have not accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
4. Are you currently serving, or have served within the last five years, as a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) employee in the Executive Branch?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Please provide the following information regarding your political appointment(s): 1. Official Title of Position; 2. Type of Appointment (i.e. Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career SES); 3. Name of Agency; 4. Date Position began; and 5. Date Position ended. (NOTE: If you have never held a political appointment, please enter N/A.)
6. Within the past five years, have you received a buyout or payment through the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment Authority (VSIP) when separating from a federal position?
 A. No
 B. Yes, and I understand candidates who are reemployed with the federal government within five years after receiving a buyout or payment under VSIP are required to repay the entire amount of the incentive prior to their onboarding date.
7. Did you elect to voluntarily resign or retire through the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) or Workforce Transition Program (WTP)
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. The following questions will be used for consideration of your application under this job opportunity announcement. Please select yes to all Conditions of Employment that you understand and agree too. Please review your responses for accuracy. Answers cannot be changed after the announcement closes.

1. If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?

Select "Not Applicable" if this question does not apply to you.
 A. Yes
 B. No, but I have an exemption
 C. I am a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, and have NOT registered with the Selective Service System and do NOT have an exemption.
 D. Not Applicable
2. All FEMA employees are subject to 24-hour on-call in the event of an emergency and all Federal employees may be subject to emergency deployment. In the event of an emergency deployment, travel requirements may be extensive in nature (weeks to months), with little advance notice, and may require relocation to emergency sites, some of which are quite austere. The length of deployment may last anywhere from days to months, depending upon the nature of the emergency or disaster.

Every FEMA employee is considered an emergency manager and each employee has regular and recurring emergency management responsibilities, although not every position requires routine deployment to disaster sites. Your emergency management duties may vary depending on the needs of the Agency, your particular skills, and certain personal circumstances. All positions may require irregular work hours, work at locations other than the official duty station, and may include duties other than those specified in the employee's official position description.

Are you able to meet this commitment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

In order to be hired for this position, applicants must undergo and successfully pass a background investigation. This may include a review of financial issues, such as delinquency, child support and/or tax obligations, as well as certain criminal offenses and illegal use of or possession of drugs.

Are you willing to undergo a background investigation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Your responses to the questions below will be used in the evaluation of your qualifications for this position. Your resume and application materials must support the level of experience and/or education you claim in this questionnaire, if after a complete review of your application package, a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications, you may be rated ineligible for this position.
1. Grade 11: Select the response that best describes your education and/or experience.
 A. I possess at least one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-9, as described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.
 C. I possess a combination of specialized experience, as described in the vacancy announcement, and related graduate level education, beyond the first two years of graduate level study, that when combined, meet the qualification requirements for this position. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.
 D. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.
2. Grade 12: Do you have one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the GS-11 level, as described in the vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Please indicate where and when you obtained each of the specialized experience requirements listed in the Qualifications section of this Job Opportunity Announcement. Include in your response: (1) the area of specialized experience; (2) the place of employment; and, (3) the specific dates of employment the experience was gained in MM/DD/YYYY - MM/DD/YYYY format. Your response must be supported by your resume.

Example: Experience in developing and delivering presentations and training; ABC Company; 10/01/2016 - 05/15/2018.
4. Identify the following project-management-related tasks you have completed. (Select all that apply)
 A. Developed project requirements
 B. Set project priorities
 C. Set short- and long-term project goals
 D. Developed project schedule and milestones
 E. Managed budgets
 F. Monitored contractor performance
 G. Reviewed lessons learned
 H. None of the above
5. Select all responses which accurately reflect your experience in managing the development of emergency action plans that required working with a team to develop or evaluate.
 A. Managed the evaluation of functional plans, contingency plans or concept of operations plans.
 B. Participated in crisis action planning.
 C. Coordinated the development of inter-agency deliberate plans.
 D. Coordinated the development of intra-agency deliberate plans.
 E. I have no experience in preparing formal plans in a work setting.
6. Select all responses that describe your ability to develop and monitor processes and organize resources to achieve desired results.
 A. Establishes clear, well-defined processes necessary to achieve the desired outcomes.
 B. Organizes people and activities to accomplish results.
 C. Delineates complex processes into more simple tasks and functions
 D. Creates an effective work flow that effectively coordinates and integrates tasks and functions
 E. None of the above
7. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience managing projects and activities to meet program goals and achieve agency objectives.
 A. I have served as a member of a project team.
 B. I have set individual goals and objectives to meet team/organizational deadlines.
 C. I have constructed a timeline for carrying out assigned project tasks.
 D. Determined the priorities and the allocation of resources necessary to successfully accomplish a project.
 E. Determined the needed and available resources (e.g., technical expertise, equipment, and infrastructure) to successfully complete assigned project tasks.
 F. I have reviewed my work products prior to submission to ensure that the supervisor?s instructions on work priorities, methods, deadlines, and quality have been met.
 G. None of the above.
8. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience conducting logistics activities.
 A. I have conducted cost-benefit analyses to identify the best course of action for logistics activities.
 B. I have established milestones for logistics projects.
 C. I have evaluated multiple strategies for logistics operation execution.
 D. I have formulated detailed logistics action plans.
 E. I have led the execution of internal logistics operations missions.
 F. I have led the execution of external logistics operations missions.
 G. None of the above.
9. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience communicating logistics information to others.
 A. I have provided formal guidance to management on logistics strategy decisions.
 B. I have made formal presentations regarding logistics strategies.
 C. I have produced reports on logistics processes for organization-wide audiences.
 D. I have presented logistics information to external partners.
 E. None of the above.
10. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience with evaluating current logistics programs.
 A. I have developed formal studies of the impact of logistics policies.
 B. I have conducted formal studies of the impact of logistics policies.
 C. I have analyzed findings from formal studies of the impact of logistics policies.
 D. I have presented findings from formal studies of the impact of logistics policies to higher level management.
 E. I have implemented recommendations resulting from formal studies of the impact of logistics policies.
 F. None of the above.
11. I have worked in an Emergency Operations Center (EOC) in the following areas: (check all that apply)
 A. County or Local
 B. State
 C. Regional
 D. Federal agency
 E. Military or similar level command center
 F. None of the above
12. Select each response that applies to your experience.
 A. I have drafted after action reports regarding logistics operations to a major incident or exercise.
 B. I have drafted and implemented solutions to after action findings, and incorporated solutions into contingency plans and standard operating procedures.
 C. I have chaired national or agency wide workgroups to resolve logistical issues.
 D. I have developed new concepts adopted agency wide for implementation of logistics.
 E. I have developed and implemented metrics to track the success and output of logistics programs.
 F. None of the above.
13. Choose all of the examples that apply to your experience developing effective internal and external working relationships. (Select all that apply.)
 A. Demonstrated ability to build constructive relationships with customers, peers, supervisors, managers, and subordinates.
 B. Took calculated risks to improve performance, develop innovations, or achieve challenging goals.
 C. Acted decisively and appropriately during a crisis.
 D. Took action to evaluate and improve practices and avoid future problems.
 E. None of the above.
14. Select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your ability to facilitate information sharing between emergency management stakeholders.
 A. I have briefed senior leadership with real-time updates on information that was relevant to an emergency management situation.
 B. I have developed reports that summarize relevant data collected for an emergency management situation.
 C. I have communicated information to external partners (i.e., people outside of my organization) that directly impacted the operations of an emergency response.
 D. I have determined the relevance of information to be reported to stakeholders (e.g., Federal, state, local, tribal, territorial, private sector, non-governmental).
 E. I have tailored the emergency relevant information communicated to audiences based on the factors that impact them directly.
 F. I have provided stakeholders with the background and context related to emergency management decisions.
 G. None of the above.
15. From the list below, select the response(s) that best reflect your experience(s) representing an agency/organization or a state/tribal/local government at a disaster operation. (check all that apply)
 A. I have conducted public and/or private outreach activities to inter- or intra-agency partners.
 B. I have supervised disaster operations staff.
 C. I have participated in natural and/or cultural resource agency consultation meetings.
 D. I have participated in project and/or kick off meetings.
 E. I have made environmental planning and/or historic preservation compliance determinations for projects.
 F. None of the above.
16. Choose the statement(s) that best describe your communication/briefing skills that you use as a regular part of your job.
 A. Communicate project objectives, goals, and status with immediate supervisor.
 B. Use effective verbal and non-verbal communication.
 C. Generate alternative solutions or strategies to address problems/issues.
 D. Promote open communication channels to be an effective team player.
 E. Brief immediate supervisor on issues/problems encountered during delivery of training course.
 F. I have not performed any of the above tasks.
17. Select the response(s) that reflect the written materials you have developed. (Select all that apply)
 A. Correspondence
 B. Reports
 C. Standard Operating Procedures (SOP)
 D. Handouts
 E. Presentations
 F. Procedural Guidance
 G. PowerPoint Slides
 H. None of the above
18. From the list below, select the audience(s) that best describe(s) your experience conducting briefings and/or presenting information on a regular and routine basis.
 A. I have assisted in briefing and/or presenting information to senior agency officials.
 B. I have assisted in briefing and/or presenting information to Federal Government officials.
 C. I have assisted in briefing and/or presenting information to State Government officials.
 D. I have assisted in briefing and/or presenting information to Local Government officials.
 E. I have assisted in briefing and/or presenting information to Tribal officials
 F. I have assisted in briefing and/or presenting information to Territorial officials.
 G. I have assisted in briefing and/or presenting information to special interest groups.
 H. I have assisted in briefing and/or presenting information to private industry officials.
 I. I have assisted in briefing and/or presenting information to the general public
 J. I have assisted in briefing and/or presenting information to professional organizations
 K. I have assisted in briefing and/or presenting information to civic groups.
 L. I have assisted in briefing and/or presenting information to universities.
 M. I have assisted in briefing and/or presenting information to non-profit institutions.
 N. I have assisted in briefing and/or presenting information to media outlets.
 O. None of the above.
19. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience with various types of oral communication.
 A. I have served as a point of contact on procedural matters.
 B. I have served as a liaison to convey information.
 C. I have presented possible solutions to problems within the organization to internal individuals or groups.
 D. I have responded to inquiries or requests for information.
 E. I have explained non-technical information.
 F. I have explained technical information.
 G. I have contacted others to obtain information.
 H. I have developed delivered presentations to external audiences on work-related topics.
 I. None of the above.
20. Select the response that best describes your experience in written communication.
 A. I have frequently written reports, briefings and other types of materials dealing with controversial or sensitive topics for senior officials in my organization.
 B. I have supported a team or assisted in developing written reports, briefings and other types of materials dealing with controversial or sensitive topics for senior officials in my organization.
 C. I have assisted in writing reports, briefings and other types of materials dealing with controversial or sensitive topics for senior officials in my organization.
 D. I have lead and personally drafted the development of complex multi-year reports and plans requiring collaboration with numerous stakeholders with competing demands.
 E. I have supervised or managed the development of written reports, briefings and other types of materials dealing with controversial topics.
 F. None of the above.
21. Do you have experience working with media organizations?
 A. Yes
 B. No
22. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience representing your organization in briefings, meetings, or conferences.
 A. I have attended inter-organization or inter-agency committee meetings with a senior official.
 B. I have been involved in representing an organization at briefings, meetings, or conferences with other interested parties (e.g., peers, colleagues, members of professional organizations) to share information.
 C. I have assisted in representing an organization at seminars or workshops.
 D. I have served as a member on an internal organization or agency advisory group.
 E. I have I have been involved in delivering technical information or assistance at external conferences, seminars, and/or workshops.
 F. None of the above.
23. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience representing your organization to others.
 A. I have presented work information in public forums.
 B. I have presented information on my organization’s goals in negotiations with representatives from other organizations.
 C. I have represented my organization at an event attended by representatives from other organizations.
 D. I have represented my organization as part of an inter-organization work group or team.
 E. None of the above.
24. Which response best describes your ability to work in a Team environment in your immediate office and outside?
 A. I have led teams or work groups and motivated others towards goal accomplishment.
 B. I have participated as a team member with some involvement in motivating others towards goal accomplishment.
 C. I have consistently developed and sustained cooperative working relationships with others.
 D. None of the above.
25. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience working with others to achieve team goals.
 A. I have coordinated assignments for project team members based on factors such as project interests, strengths, and competing workloads.
 B. I have coordinated project team members in preparing communication materials.
 C. I have promoted cooperation among project team members from various backgrounds and/or organizations.
 D. I have assisted one or more work team members by completing their tasks when they had a heavy workload.
 E. I have volunteered for assignments during team meetings.
 F. None of the above.
26. From the list below, select the statement that describes the extent of your training and experience developing a project plan for an organizational initiative.
 A. I have had training in project planning.
 B. I have assisted others in developing a project plan, including the identification of project goals, scope, deliverables, timelines, budgeting, stakeholders, or communication plans.
 C. I have developed a project plan, including the identification of project goals, scope, deliverables, timelines, budgeting, stakeholders, or communication plans. My work was reviewed by a supervisor or senior-level project manager.
 D. I have independently or routinely developed project plans, including the identification of project goals, scope, deliverables, timelines, budgeting, stakeholders, or communication plans.
 E. I have served as an adviser or approver of project plans developed by others.
 F. I do not have training or experience performing this task.
27. Select all answer(s) that best describe your experience:
 A. Worked with stakeholders to develop a course of action brief
 B. Delivered a course of action brief to a senior leadership steering committee as part of a group
 C. Led the collaborative development of the course of action brief
 D. Led a gap analysis study team
 E. Made recommendations to senior leadership based on the outcome of a collaborative gap analysis
 F. Participated in the development of a multi-county or multi-base planning strategy
 G. Participated in the development of a multi-state or multi-nation planning strategy
 H. Contributed to written plans that conform to CPG 101
 I. None of the above
28. From the list below, select the statement(s) that describe your level of experience and ability in planning and working with groups and taskforces.
 A. I have experience providing leadership for team projects and overseeing individual and staff activities.
 B. I have experience dealing with organizational challenges and working cooperatively and collaboratively with internal/external groups.
 C. I have experience leading groups and taskforces on technical projects.
 D. I have experience working with a team of professionals to support research, answer research and technical questions, test methodologies, and develop analytical tools.
 E. I have experience in planning and evaluating activities of a team.
 F. I have experience translating programs, policy issues or other substantive activities into concise, well-balanced management plans for accomplishing projects.
 G. I have experience planning, organizing and coordinating work assignments.
 H. None of the above.
29. Please take this opportunity to review your question responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you understand this statement, have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected