Position Title
Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist - Information Systems (EHRM)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZP-12822513-26-SC Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 30, 2025 to Friday, November 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements. Please indicate Yes or No for the following questions:


1.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a citizen of the United States (U.S.)?
 Yes
 No


BASIC REQUIREMENTS: Must possess one of the following:


3.
Select that letter that best describes your education or training for the Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist position. (Transcripts and or Certification Required)
 Associates or higher degree in the biomedical technology or biomedical engineering field.
 Associates or higher degree in electronics, a field of information technology, or engineering (other than biomedical engineering) AND 1 year of creditable experience.
 Completion of the Department of Defense (DOD) biomedical equipment technician training program.
 Completion of a DOD training program in repair and maintenance of electronic systems or information technology AND 1 year of creditable experience.
 Completion of a biomedical engineering technician or Healthcare Technology Management (HTM) certificate program that included an internship or apprenticeship.
 Completion of biomedical engineering technician or HTM certificate program that did not include an internship AND 1 year of creditable experience.
 Hold or having ever held certification as a Certified Biomedical Equipment Technician (CBET), Certified Radiology Equipment Specialist (CRES), Certified Laboratory Equipment Specialist (CLES), or Certified Healthcare Technology Manager (CHTM). Continuous maintenance of certification is not required throughout VHA employment.
 None of the above.


4.
GS-12 GRADE REQUIREMENTS:  Do you possess at least one (1) year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-11)?Experience at this level includes, but is not limited to:  Manage and maintains medical servers and networks, diagnostic software, virtual platforms, and clinical applications software.  They manage projects involving medical equipment and clinical systems, to include procurement, installation, and maintenance.  The BESS Manages hardware components of virtual servers, physical servers, and medical workstations.  They Facilitates operating system updates, upgrades, and virus protection.  BESS identifies, troubleshoots, and completes corrective action for issues related to networked medical equipment and clinical systems.  They evaluate compatibility and adaptability of medical equipment and clinical systems to integrate with the electronic health record or other clinical systems.  They regularly review, coordinate, and implements available software patches, updates, and system/data backups with staff and manufacturers.  BESS effectively responds to, investigates, and documents cybersecurity incidents involving medical equipment and clinical systems. They respond to and remediates hazard alerts, recall notifications, and incidents concerning medical equipment and clinical systems. Documents all actions in the appropriate system.  They also monitor cybersecurity metrics, and initiates corrective action to address deficiencies and comply with the facility's medical device protection program. Ensures networked medical equipment and clinical systems are inventoried in the appropriate database.  BESS serves as a subject matter expert on assigned committees, projects, and workgroups and performs incoming inspections and planned maintenance on medical equipment and clinical systems.
 Yes
 No


5.
GS-12 Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities:  In addition to the experience above, can you demonstrate the following KSAs?  (a) Knowledge of Health Level 7 (HL7) and Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM) standards.(b) Knowledge of advanced testing methods to troubleshoot networked medical equipment and clinical system interfaces.(c) Skill in maintaining computer and server based medical equipment, databases, and software.(d) Skill in managing medical equipment and clinical system projects that interface with an electronic health record or other information systems. (e) Skill in applying cybersecurity standards to medical devices and clinical systems such as Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Federal Information Security Modernization Act (FISMA), and National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) guidelines.(f) Ability to apply information security tools including virus protection, software updates, and operating system patches.(g) Ability to establish a medical network including VLAN configuration, Internet Protocol addressing, and network security.
 Yes
 No


Certification of Understanding - Select the appropriate answer to the statement below. Failure to provide an answer will result in your not being considered for this position.


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C.1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙