Position Title
Electrical Engineer
Agency
Bureau of Reclamation
Announcement Number
BOR-DO-25-CTP-12798952-JP Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 12, 2025 to Monday, September 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center or review The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior with CTAP eligibility?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)

To claim ICTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify ICTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center or review The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than The Department of the Interior?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Where did you learn about this vacancy?
 A. American Society of Professional Estimators (ASPE)
 B. Association for Advancement of Cost Engineering International (AACEI)
 C. Engineering News-Record (ENR)
 D. Asianlife.com
 E. Diversenote.com
 F. NativeAmericanJobs.com
 G. WorkplaceDiversity.com
 H. Department of Veterans Affairs/Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment
 I. Division of Vocational Rehabilitation (DVR)
 J. National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE)
 K. Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities (HACU)
 L. Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU)
 M. Tribal Colleges and Universities (TCU)
 N. Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE)
 O. Referral from a Professor or Academic Advisor
 P. Referral from a College/University Career Placement Office
 Q. Referral from a non-listed Professional Organization
 R. Job/Career Fair
 S. Referral from a friend or family member
 T. Reclamation Employee
 U. Reclamation Internet Site
 V. Referral from a State or Local government
 W. Referral from another Federal Agency/employee
 X. USAJOBS.gov Search
 Y. Other Internet Site
 Z. Other
2. Provide specific information about your response to the previous question (i.e. professor's name and place of employment; college or university name; job/career fair and location held; friend's name; etc.). (limit 100 characters)
3. Certificates of Eligible Applicants for this position may be shared with other Federal agencies at their request. This may include other Offices within the Bureau of Reclamation, other Bureaus within the Department of the Interior, and/or other Federal agencies. If your information is shared with another office/bureau/agency, you will be notified. Do you authorize the sharing of your information with other Federal agencies? If you respond "No" to this question, your information will not be shared and you will not be considered for employment by the requesting agency.
 A. Yes
 B. No
You WILL NOT be considered for this announcement if you fail to submit ALL the applicable required documentation in the announcement (i.e. transcripts,DD-214's, SF-15, VA letter, SF-50's, PE Registration, etc.) by the CLOSING DATE of this announcement. Please call the Human Resources Office phone number listed on this announcement for clarification or further information.
4. My performance is at an acceptable level and I am not serving under a Notice of Opportunity to Demonstrate Acceptable Performance (NODAP).
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. This position is designated as a Non-Sensitive/Low Risk position. It requires a fully completed and favorably adjudicated SF85 Background Investigation (T1 or equivalent) that is current (within the last 5 years). This is a condition of employment.

Are you willing to undergo a comprehensive background investigation which includes, but is not limited to, contact with all references, employers, co-workers, personal associates, and a review of your driving record, credit history, criminal history, and military service?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
To verify your claimed eligibility to apply for this position vacancy, you must submit all supporting documentations outlined in the Required Documents section of this job announcement.
7. I understand this is NOT a remote position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
9. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
10. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
11. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
12. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
Please read the following eligibility questions carefully. If you do not meet any of the eligibilities, you will not be considered for this position.
13. Professional Engineering (P.E.) registration is required for this position. You must provide a copy of your current, valid registration certification (P.E. License) with your application. Are you a current registered Professional Engineer?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
If selected, you will be subject to an initial suitability review, determined by a background investigation.
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Electrical Engineer position with the Bureau of Reclamation. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you meet the minimum qualifications for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
1. Choose one answer which best describes your education and/or experience in accordance with requirements for engineering positions at this level.
 A. I have a professional engineering degree in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum.
 B. I have a professional engineering degree which included differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than 1st year physics/chemistry) in 5 of the following 7 areas of engineering science or physics: statics, dynamics, strength of materials, fluid mechanics, hydraulics, thermodynamics, electrical fields/circuits, nature and properties of materials, or comparable area of fundamental engineering science/physics such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics or electronics.
 C. I have a combination of education and experience equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering, demonstrated by my current registration as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any state, the District or Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico.
 D. I have a combination of education and experience equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering, demonstrated by successfully passing the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico.
 E. I have a combination of education and experience equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering, demonstrated by completion of 60 semester hours of courses in physical, math, and engineering science and including engineering courses specified in Choice 2.
 F. I have a degree in a related curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field, e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, may be accepted in lieu of a bachelor's degree in engineering, provided the applicant has had at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions. (The above examples of related curricula are not all inclusive.)
 G. I do not meet or exceed the education or experience requirement as described. Specialized Experience Statement:
2. In addition to meeting basic requirements for engineering positions, choose one answer which best describes your experience in accordance with requirements for engineering positions at this level.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level. Examples of specialized experience include experience with protective relay settings; experience with Arc Flash analysis; experience with power plant equipment technical recommendations; experience in power system analysis studies, and protective relaying.
 B. I do not meet the experience requirement as described above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. This position requires a current, valid Professional Engineering License. Failure to provide proof of such license will cause you to be rated ineligible for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected