Position Title
Lead Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSU-12747596-25-MD Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 3, 2025 to Monday, July 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Lead Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist - GS-0647 position with the Veterans Health Administration. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.
Basic requirements
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. English Language Proficiency: Per VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Chapter 3, Section A, Paragraph 3j: No person will be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C., chapter 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA who is not proficient in written and spoken English.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Certification: All applicants must be certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (ARRT) (R). Advanced ARRT certification is required for assignments that include computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or Mammography (M) duties performed independently, as applicable. Advanced certification indicates that the incumbent can operate independently and has demonstrated specific clinical competency in the appropriate specialty and taken and passed the designated examination. In modalities that require advanced certification, to support their continued development, technologists who do not possess an advanced certification may be provided on the job training with oversight from a certified radiologic technologist. 

Please select the appropriate answer below.
 A. I possess certification in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology (ARRT) (R
 B. I possess advanced ARRT certification required for Computed Tomography (CT) and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)
 C. I do not possess the certification as identified above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. Education: Completion of a full-time training course of at least 24 months in duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from other accrediting agencies as recognized by the Department of Education (DOE).

Do you meet the education requirements as described above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
GRADE DETERMINATIONS 
Lead Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist, GS-10
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. Experience-  At least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level GS-09 directly related to the position being filled that demonstrates the clinical competencies described at that level. Employees at this level are fully functional as an advanced DRT and carry out their assigned tasks independently. DRTs at this level may have varying assignments including special and complex imaging procedures beyond the full performance level, clinical instruction, and basic QM type duties within the program. 

Do you meet the experience described above? 
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Lead Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist. The incumbent functions as a lead DRT for a group of DRTs [at the GS-9 level and below]. The incumbent provides a full range of general radiologic imaging exams, has a broad knowledge of the different modalities within the diagnostic radiologic area, and is accountable to the next higher-level supervisor. The candidate must demonstrate all of the following technical KSAs and demonstrate the potential to acquire the assignment-specific KSAs designated by an asterisk (*):

i. Ability to provide feedback to supervisor on technical aspects of work.
ii. *Ability to resolve informal employee complaints.
iii. *Ability to monitor and report on the status and progress of work and make adjustments to accomplish the workload in accordance with established procedures
iv. Ability to perform general and specialized diagnostic radiologic procedures in advanced levels of complex treatment situations.

Do you meet the Knowledge, Skills and Abilities described above? 
 A. Yes
 B. No
RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

SF-50 REMINDER- If you are a current federal employee, or a former employee with reinstatement rights, you MUST submit a copy of your most recent SF-50 or your separation/ resignation SF-50. This SF-50 needs to show your current or last grade, step, wage, and title. Please do not submit a bonus or award SF-50. A promotion, General wage adjudication, Step- progression or a separation SF-50 are the preferred SF-50's. Your federal employment status cannot be verified without this document, and you will be disqualified for not meeting the area of consideration if you do not provide the documentation. 

TRANSCRIPT REMINDER- If you are basing your qualifications on education or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application. 

LICENSE and /or CERTIFICATION   - Please provide a copy of your licensure and/or certification to demonstrate you meet the basic requirements of the position posted.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected