Position Title
Nuclear Medicine Technologist - Multi-Modality
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSY-12820925-26-GPA Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, October 21, 2025 to Friday, January 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


3.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


4.
Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Name and Contact Information
Job title
Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2021)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week if part-time)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held.
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

Do you confirm that the above information is clearly stated for each work entry you are claiming experience for, and that each entry is full time unless otherwise annotated with part-time hours?
 Yes
 No


All qualifying experience you possess must be clearly described in your application package. We will not make assumptions when reviewing applications. Failure to demonstrate your experience and knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) in your application may result in disqualification. It is strongly recommended that you write to each KSA to demonstrate how you have gained each one in your application package or on a supplemental document. Please see the announcement for KSA requirements.



Assessment 1
Basic Requirements


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Certification. All applicants must be certified in nuclear medicine technology by the Nuclear Medicine Technology Certification Board (NMTCB) or the American Registry of Radiologic Technology (ARRT) (N). NMTCB or ARRT (N) certification eligibility requirements are normally satisfied by one of the following:

(1) Completion of a NMTCB-recognized nuclear medicine technology program,

OR

(2)Completion of a nuclear medicine technology program accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Educational Programs in Nuclear Medicine Technology(JRCNMT), or other accrediting agencies as recognized by the U.S. Department of Education (DOE), culminating in a certificate, associate, baccalaureate, or master's degree. Educational programs must have structured clinical training sufficient to provide clinical competency in radiation safety, instrumentation, clinical procedures, and radio-pharmacy, as deemed acceptable by the NMTCB.

NOTE: Technologists functioning as multi-modality technologists require additional specific certifications as stated in assignment descriptions below.

Do you meet the certification requirements?
 Yes
 No


Grade Requirements


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Nuclear Medicine Technologist (Multi-Modality Technologist), GS-11

(a) Experience. For assignments above the journey level, the candidate must have 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level directly related to the position being filled, and must fully meet the KSAs at that level.

Examples of specialized experience includes:  
Ability to document excessive radiation exposure in the working environment.
Knowledge of medical events requiring documentation and the ability to properly document them and make recommendations to the radiation safety officer (RSO).
Ability to communicate orally and in writing post iodine-131 therapy radiation safety precautions.
Ability to troubleshoot gamma camera and auxiliary equipment problems.
Ability to analyze computer generated data for technical quality and artifacts and initiate corrective measures.

(b) Assignments. For all assignments above the journey level, the higher-level duties must consist of significant scope, complexity (difficulty), range of variety, and be performed by the incumbent at least 25% of the time. NMTs at this level are fully functional as an advanced NMT and carry out their assigned tasks independently. NMTs in this assignment perform fusion imaging such as PET/CT, SPECT/CT and/or PET/MR procedures that include diagnostic nuclear medicine, CT, and/or MR fused images. Multi-modality technologists must hold appropriate specific certifications in nuclear medicine (NMTCB or ARRT(N)), as well as CT (NMTCB(CT)) or ARRT (CT)), and/or MR (ARRT (MR)) applicable to independently perform the assignment duties. They carry out these complex assignments independently as part of nuclear medicine procedures. Assignments may include injection of contrast and recognition of allergic reaction, contraindications, and medication interactions. The work must be of sufficient scope and complexity to meet the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform at this level.

AND

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. The candidate must demonstrate all of the following technical KSAs:
i. Knowledge of contrast media, side effects, medication allergic reactions, drug interactions, and extravasation assessment.
ii. Skill to differentiate multi-modality protocols and adjust protocols according to patient needs, body mass index, or area of interest.
iii. Knowledge of unique scanning and processing parameters required of multi- modality imaging.
iv. Ability to troubleshoot and make simple repairs to PET/CT and/or PET/MR imaging systems.
v. Ability to care for patients during all stages of the procedure and provide emergency response care when necessary.
vi. Knowledge of all contraindications for performing CT and/or MR scans.


Do you meet or exceed all these requirements?

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙