Position Title
Information Technology Specialist (CUSTSPT)
Agency
Federal Emergency Management Agency
Announcement Number
FEMA-JD-12795217-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 5, 2025 to Monday, September 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)

Are you a current or former FEMA Stafford Act employee eligible under the Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)?

Current and former FEMA Stafford Act employees who can document 64 or more hours of paid time, per pay period, with no breaks in service* for 78 or more consecutive pay periods since August 1, 2014, are eligible to be considered for this Merit Promotion Job Opportunity Announcement. (*Note: A "break in service" is defined as 3 or more days in non-pay status, except as allowed under 5 CFR § 315.201(b)(3)(ii) for special circumstances such as military deployment, etc.).

To verify eligibility, you must submit: 
"Notice of DRRA Eligibility" provided by OCHCO.  If you believe you're eligible, but have not received your notice, please reach out to the HR Specialist listed in the announcement.
Your FEMA SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your appointment in the excepted service under the Stafford Act.  We recommend attaching a SF-50 which indicates your highest grade and step.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Current FEMA Employee

Are you a current FEMA employee who currently holds OR has previously held a permanent (not time limited) position in the competitive service?

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your permanent competitive status.  Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions.  You may need to submit more than one SF-50.  Your SF-50 must reflect:
Block 24 - Tenure:  1 - Permanent (career) or 2 - Conditional: AND
Block 34 - Position Occupied:  1 - Competitive Service
If you previously held a career or career conditional appointment, you must provide your current SF-50 and your SF-50 which shows competitive status eligibility.
Please do not submit an award SF-50, as it might not indicate your grade level and step.  
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. FEMA Employees Only Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)
Are you a current or former FEMA employee who is considered displaced or surplus (you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction in Force)?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, your most recent performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. How did you hear about this Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) job opportunity?
 A. USAJOBS
 B. FEMA's Social Media (Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Online Job board (Indeed, Zip Recruiter, etc.)
 D. FEMA.gov Careers Website
 E. FEMA Virtual Hiring Event
 F. FEMA On-Site Hiring Event
 G. College/University/Alumni Organization
 H. FEMA Employee Referral
 I. Other
2. Are you a retiree receiving a federal annuity (either military or civilian)? Or have you accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years? (Select all that apply.)
 A. Yes, I'm receiving a military annuity.
 B. Yes, I'm receiving a civilian annuity.
 C. Yes, I've received a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
 D. No, I am not receiving a federal annuity and have not accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
3. Are you a current FEMA employee?
 A. I'm a current FEMA Local Hire Employee
 B. I'm a current FEMA Reservist Employee
 C. I'm a current FEMA CORE Employee
 D. I'm a current FEMA PFT Employee
 E. I'm a current FEMA Senior Executive Service Employee
 F. I'm not a current FEMA Employee
4. Are you currently serving, or have served within the last five years, as a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) employee in the Executive Branch?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Please provide the following information regarding your political appointment(s): 1. Official Title of Position; 2. Type of Appointment (i.e. Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career SES); 3. Name of Agency; 4. Date Position began; and 5. Date Position ended. (NOTE: If you have never held a political appointment, please enter N/A.)
6. Within the past five years, have you received a buyout or payment through the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment Authority (VSIP) when separating from a federal position?
 A. No
 B. Yes, and I understand candidates who are reemployed with the federal government within five years after receiving a buyout or payment under VSIP are required to repay the entire amount of the incentive prior to their onboarding date.
7. Did you elect to voluntarily resign or retire through the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) or Workforce Transition Program (WTP)
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?

Select "Not Applicable" if this question does not apply to you.
 A. Yes
 B. No, but I have an exemption
 C. I am a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, and have NOT registered with the Selective Service System and do NOT have an exemption.
 D. Not Applicable
2. All FEMA employees are subject to 24-hour on-call in the event of an emergency and all Federal employees may be subject to emergency deployment. In the event of an emergency deployment, travel requirements may be extensive in nature (weeks to months), with little advance notice, and may require relocation to emergency sites, some of which are quite austere. The length of deployment may last anywhere from days to months, depending upon the nature of the emergency or disaster.

Every FEMA employee is considered an emergency manager and each employee has regular and recurring emergency management responsibilities, although not every position requires routine deployment to disaster sites. Your emergency management duties may vary depending on the needs of the Agency, your particular skills, and certain personal circumstances. All positions may require irregular work hours, work at locations other than the official duty station, and may include duties other than those specified in the employee's official position description.

Are you able to meet this commitment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I understand I am subject to completion of a pre-employment drug test (including marijuana). A tentative offer of employment will be rescinded if you fail to report to the drug test appointment or fail the test. You will be subject to random testing.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. In order to be hired for this position, applicants must undergo and successfully pass a Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) investigation. This may include a review of financial issues, such as delinquency, child support and/or tax obligations, as well as certain criminal offenses and illegal use of or possession of drugs.

Are you willing to undergo a background investigation?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Your responses to the questions below will be used in the evaluation of your qualifications for this position. Your resume and application materials must support the level of experience and/or education you claim in this questionnaire. If after a complete review of your application package, a determination is made that you overstated your qualifications, you may be rated ineligible for this position.
1. Grade 12: Do you have one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the GS-11 level, as described in the vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Please indicate where and when you obtained each of the specialized experience requirements listed in the Qualifications section of this Job Opportunity Announcement. Include in your response: (1) the area of specialized experience; (2) the place of employment; and, (3) the specific dates of employment the experience was gained in MM/DD/YYYY - MM/DD/YYYY format. Your response must be supported by your resume.

Example: Experience in developing and delivering presentations and training; ABC Company; 10/01/2016 - 05/15/2018.
3. Select the best response that describes your experience troubleshooting computer hardware and software.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience troubleshooting computer hardware and software.
 B. I have had education or training troubleshooting computer hardware and software but have not performed it on the job.
 C. I have troubleshot computer hardware and software and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have troubleshot computer hardware and software independently without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others on troubleshooting computer hardware and software.
4. Select the best response that describes your experience applying Life Cycle management principles for installation and integration of hardware and software.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience applying Life Cycle management principles for installation and integration of hardware and software.
 B. I have had education or training applying Life Cycle management principles for installation and integration of hardware and software but have not performed it on the job.
 C. I have applied Life Cycle management principles for installation and integration of hardware and software and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have applied Life Cycle management principles for installation and integration of hardware and software independently without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others on applying Life Cycle management principles for installation and integration of hardware and software.
5. Select all responses that best describe your current work experience. 
 A. I have utilized knowledge of IT security principles and procedures.
 B. I have engaged in lifecycle planning and/or implementation.
 C. I have worked in a team environment on IT projects.
 D. I have performed desktop support.
 E. None of the above.
6. Select all responses that best describe your experience providing Help Desk support functions to assist customers.
 A. I have assisted customers with their access and rights.
 B. I have assisted customers with external hardware device issues (e.g., printers, monitors, keyboards, mice, etc.)
 C. I have assisted customers with application of software.
 D. None of the above.
7. Select the best response that describes your experience providing technical support over the phone to customers.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience providing technical support over the phone to customers.
 B. I have had education or training providing technical support over the phone to customers but have not performed it on the job.
 C. I have provided technical support over the phone to customers and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have provided technical support over the phone to customers independently without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others on providing technical support over the phone to customers.
8. Select all responses that best describe your experience working with Windows operating systems.
 A. I have worked with Windows 7.
 B. I have worked with Windows 10.
 C. I have worked with Windows 11.
 D. I have worked with Windows Server 2016/2019.
 E. None of the above.
9. Select all responses that best describe your experience assuring information systems are maintained in accordance with governing regulations.
 A. I have used and/or managed virus protection software to ensure, protect, and restore information system capabilities.
 B. I have monitored and/or evaluated IT systems/applications to ensure compliance with security requirements and policies.
 C. I have evaluated, developed, and/or implemented methods, procedures, and guidance to protect information technology systems and applications.
 D. I have conducted risk assessments of planned and installed information systems to identify IT risks/vulnerabilities and determined level of IT protection needed.
 E. None of the above.
10. Select the best response that describes your experience preparing written materials to provide advice on a variety of IT issues.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience preparing written materials to provide advice on a variety of IT issues.
 B. I have had education or training analyzing preparing written materials to provide advice on a variety of IT issues. but have not performed it on the job.
 C. I have prepared written materials to provide advice on a variety of IT issues and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have prepared written materials to provide advice on a variety of IT issues independently without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others on preparing written materials to provide advice on a variety of IT issues.
11. Select the best response that describes your experience communicating orally to discuss solutions for a variety of IT issues.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience communicating orally to discuss solutions for a variety of IT issues.
 B. I have had education or training communicating orally to discuss solutions for a variety of IT issues but have not performed it on the job.
 C. I have communicated orally to discuss solutions for a variety of IT issues and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have communicated orally to discuss solutions for a variety of IT issues independently without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others on communicating orally to discuss solutions for a variety of IT issues.
12. Select the best response that describes your experience representing customers on their software and hardware IT requirements.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience representing customers on their software and hardware IT requirements.
 B. I have had education or training representing customers on their software and hardware IT requirements but have not performed it on the job.
 C. I have represented customers on their software and hardware IT requirements and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have represented customers on their software and hardware IT requirements independently without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others on representing customers on their software and hardware IT requirements.
13. Select the best response that describes your experience providing customer service in person, over the phone, or through electronic mail.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience providing customer service in person, over the phone, or through electronic mail.
 B. I have had education or training providing customer service in person, over the phone, or through electronic mail but have not performed it on the job.
 C. I have provided customer service in person, over the phone, or through electronic mail and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have provided customer service in person, over the phone, or through electronic mail independently without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others on providing customer service in person, over the phone, or through electronic mail.
14. Select the best response that describes your experience providing customer service on technical IT challenges for customers.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience providing customer service on technical IT challenges for customers.
 B. I have had education or training providing customer service on technical IT challenges for customers but have not performed it on the job.
 C. I have provided customer service on technical IT challenges for customers and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have provided customer service on technical IT challenges for customers independently without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others on providing customer service on technical IT challenges for customers.
15. Select the best response that describes your experience working with others to achieve team goals.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience working with others to achieve team goals.
 B. I have had education or training working with others to achieve team goals but have not performed it on the job.
 C. I have worked with others to achieve team goals and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have worked with others to achieve team goals independently without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others on working with others to achieve team goals.
16. Please take this opportunity to review your question responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you understand this statement, have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected