Position Title
Regional Program Analyst
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12820954 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, October 21, 2025 to Tuesday, October 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Regional Program Analyst. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you.
 I have the equivalent of 3 years of experience in professional management, financial management, and administrative experience that qualifies for the position.
 I have a 2-year degree related to Business Administration, School Administration, Leadership and Management, Early Childhood Management or Communication AND 2 years of professional management, financial management, and administrative experience.
 I have a 4-year degree in the same fields AND 1 year of professional management, financial management, and administrative experience.
 I have none of the above.


2.
What is your highest level of education?
 I have a Master’s degree in Business Administration, School Administration, Leadership and Management, Early Childhood Management, or Communication.
 I have a Bachelor’s degree in Business Administration, School Administration, Leadership and Management, Early Childhood Management, or Communication.
 I have a 2-year degree in Business Administration, School Administration, Leadership and Management, Early Childhood Management, or Communication.
 I do not have a degree, but have 3 years of professional management, financial management, and administrative experience.
 I have none of the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have in financial management, budgeting, purchasing, and program-level data analysis to provide effective financial management support as it pertains to a child and youth program?
 I have 5+ years of experience in financial management, budgeting, purchasing, and program-level data analysis, as described above, in a Department of Defense (DoD) Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3 to 5 years of experience in financial management, budgeting, purchasing, and program-level data analysis, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience in financial management, budgeting, purchasing, and program-level data analysis, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 3 years of experience in financial management, budgeting, purchasing, and program-level data analysis, as described above, in a child and youth program.
 I have no experience in the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have in performing analysis of operational requirements (e.g., manpower planning, organizational structures, and/or operations)?
 I have 3+ years of experience in performing operational analysis, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in performing operational analysis, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience in performing operational analysis, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in performing operational analysis, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in performing operational analysis.
 I have no experience in the above.


5.
How many years of experience do you have with child and youth programs and services?
 I have 3+ years of experience with DoD Child and Youth Programs.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience with DoD Child and Youth Programs.
 I have 3+ years of experience with child and youth programs outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience with child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience with child and youth programs.
 I have no experience with the above.


6.
Do you have experience in administrating, managing, and operating one or more of the following DoD Child and Youth Program areas: Child Development Centers (CDC), Family Child Care/Child Development Homes (FCC/CDH), Youth Programs (YP), and/or Child and Youth Education Services (CYES) (School Liaison)?
 I have experience in administrating, managing, and operating all four of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have experience in administrating, managing, and operating at least three of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have experience in administrating, managing, and operating at least two of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have experience in administrating, managing, and operating one of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have no experience in the above.


7.
Do you have experience in overseeing one or more of the following DoD Child and Youth Program areas: Child Development Centers (CDC), Family Child Care/Child Development Homes (FCC/CDH), Youth Programs (YP), and/or Child and Youth Education Services (CYES) (School Liaison)?
 I have experience in overseeing all four of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have experience in overseeing at least three of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have experience in overseeing at least two of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have experience in overseeing one of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have no experience in the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙