Position Title
WRITER-EDITOR
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OIT-SMP-12735005-SY Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 30, 2025 to Tuesday, August 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. (1) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is currently on Active Duty?

-OR-

(2) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs? In order to be considered under this appointment authority you must not currently be serving or have served under this authority. 

-OR-

(3) Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status? In order to be considered under this appointment authority you must not currently be serving or have served under this authority.

To verify your eligibility for option 1 identified above, you must submit official supporting documentation (i.e. copy of the Active Duty orders or statement of service)

To verify your eligibility for options 2 and 3 identified above, you must submit all supporting documents identified on the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15 (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (Member 4 copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; death certificate and documentation identifying marital status at the time of death; disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service, etc.). For information on how to request veterans documentation please contact the Veterans Affairs Benefits and Services at 1-800-827-1000   or online via https://iris.custhelp.va.gov/app/ask/ 

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans Resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2.

Are you a current or former land management employee eligible to apply under The Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act as described in 5 U.S.C 9602, who meets the conditions below?  

Hired for a temporary or term position under a competitive appointment.  

Served one or more temporary or term appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years.  

Performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service.  

If no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit the following: 

Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 reflecting your time limited status. 

Additional Standard Form 50s may be required to demonstrate a service period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years.  

Your most recent performance appraisal demonstrating fully successful, or equivalent.  See Additional Information section of vacancy announcement for further details.    

If you have had multiple periods of time-limited employment, you must show proof of acceptable levels of employment for each of the periods of employment used to satisfy the 24-month requirement.  

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency? If yes, confirm:
You occupy (or have been separated from) a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. This question applies to current DHS employees. If you are not a current DHS employee, select No.  If you claim only this eligibility, and you are not a current DHS employee, you will not receive further consideration for this position.   

Are you a current Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who is currently employed with DHS in a permanent competitive service position? DHS includes the following agencies: CBP, ICE, FEMA, FLETC, USCIS, USCG, USSS, etc.). Please visit http://dhsconnect.dhs.gov for a comprehensive list of all DHS agencies. 

Note: To verify your eligibility as a current DHS employee you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting: Tenure: Career or career-conditional (1 or 2) and Position Occupied: Competitive service (1).

If you do not meet any of the categories above, you must answer no to this question.

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee with a confirmed Reemployment Priority List (RPL) registration that includes the following:
You have received notice that you will be displaced from the DHS, or
You have been separated by a reduction in force (RIF) from DHS within the last two years, or
You are fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year after compensation began, AND you have either separated from DHS due to a compensable injury or disability OR you have accepted a position at a lower grade or pay level in lieu of separation. 
 If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your eligibility, such as:
RPL registration documentation, AND
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
If recovered from a compensable injury, Department of Labor notification that injury compensation benefits will or have been ceased
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
are entitled to veterans' preference?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service. For information on how to request your veterans documentation please contact the Veterans Affairs Benefits and Services at 1-800-827-1000  or online via https://iris.custhelp.va.gov/app/ask/
 A. Yes
 B. No
7.

The following question applies to a current permanent federal employee in the competitive service.  If you are not a current permanent federal employee in the competitive service, select No.   

Are you a current federal civilian employee with the Federal government in a permanent competitive service position? 

To verify your eligibility as indicated above, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action(s), Standard Form(s) 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form(s) reflecting your current permanent position in the competitive service 

Tenure (Box 24): Career or career-conditional (1 or 2)  
Position Occupied (Box 34): Competitive service (1)  

NOTE:  If you are a current federal employee in an excepted service position or other than permanent competitive service position then you are not eligible under this current federal employee eligibility.  If you have prior permanent competitive service with the federal government, you may be eligible as a reinstatement applicant if the announcement is open to former federal employees. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
8.

Instruction: As a federal competitive service employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current federal employee, have you held a permanent position in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. To verify your eligibility as a current Federal civilian employee with promotion potential, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action(s), Standard Form(s) 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form(s) that reflect:   

Tenure (Box 24): Career or career-conditional (1 or 2); AND 
Position Occupied (Box 34): Competitive service (1); OR 
Position Occupied (Box 34): Excepted service (2); when in another merit system which OPM has an interchange; AND 
Promotion Potential equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced. 
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.

You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. In addition to the application and application questionnaire, this position requires a USA Hire online assessment, which measures critical general competencies required to perform the job. If you are required to take the USA Hire assessment, you will be emailed a unique URL to access the USA Hire system. The USA Hire online assessment must be completed within 48 hours, following the close of this announcement. You will have the opportunity to request a testing accommodation for the assessment should you have a disability covered under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). See the How to Apply and Next Steps within the Job Opportunity Announcement for additional details.

Do you acknowledge that you may be required to take an additional online USA Hire assessment, via an email link sent to you after completion of this application, and that failure to complete any portion of the assessment will remove your application from consideration?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that by not taking the additional required USA Hire assessment that I will be removed from further consideration.
2. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Indianapolis, IN
 C. Bloomington, MN
3. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
12
13
4. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am applying as a VEOA and am not a current or former federal employee; OR I am a current or former federal employee eligible under the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act; OR I am applying as a Military Spouse.
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a current GS federal employee (or my previous federal employment in the last 52 weeks was) under one of the following appointments: temporary or as a Schedule B VEOA.
6. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under non-temporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am applying as a VEOA and am not a current or former federal employee; OR I am a current or former federal employee eligible under the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act; OR I am applying as a Military Spouse.
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a current GS federal employee (or my previous federal employment in the last 52 weeks was) under one of the following appointments: temporary or as a Schedule B VEOA.
7. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by CBP. Individuals are required to have physically resided in the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law) for at least three of the last five years, before completing an application for CBP employment.

If you do not meet the residency requirement as stated above and you have been physically located in a foreign location for more than two of the last five years, you may request an exception to determine if you are eligible for a residency wavier by meeting one or more of the following conditions:
Working for the U.S. Government as a federal civilian or as a member of the military
A dependent who was authorized to accompany a federal civilian or member of the military who was working for the U.S. government
Participation in a study abroad program sponsored by a U.S. affiliated college or university
Working as a contractor, intern, consultant or volunteer supporting the U.S. government

Exceptions may be granted to applicants if they can provide complete state-side coverage information required to make a suitability determination. Examples of state-side coverage information include: the state-side address of the company headquarters where the applicant's personnel file is located, the state-side address of the Professor in charge of the applicant's "Study Abroad" program, and/or the state-side addresses of anyone who worked or studied with the applicant while overseas. If selected for a position, you must provide documentation to support a request for an exception.

Do you meet the residency requirement?
 A. Yes, for at least 3 of the last 5 years I physically resided within the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law).
 B. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am a current CBP employee.
 C. No, I do not meet this requirement and am therefore requesting an exception under one of the criteria listed above. I understand that if selected for this position, I will be required to provide supporting documentation for the period of time I have spent outside of the United States.
 D. No, I do not meet this requirement and am not requesting an exception. I understand that since I do not meet CBP’s residency requirement, I cannot be considered for a position with CBP at this time.
8. Are you receiving a civilian retirement annuity from OPM based on retiring from the Federal government? If you select yes and you are selected for this position, your salary will be off-set by the amount of your civilian retirement annuity.

To verify, you must submit a copy of your retirement SF-50 with your application package. It is also recommended to submit a copy of your most recent annuity statement.

Note, this does not apply to military retirement and annuity pay.
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
10. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
11. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
Assessment 1
The following question will only be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-12 grade level?

 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes interpreting and explaining a variety of subjects and to write or edit materials tailored to specific media and audiences; presenting information clearly and at a level appropriate for the intended audience in order to promote thorough understanding; composing speeches for officials, press releases for the organization, and responses to inquiries on complex issues related to the enforcement of legislation; modifying established methods or deriving new methods of developing and presenting information to maximize understanding and minimize controversy among the intended audiences.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
2. Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-13 grade level?

 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that included gathering information from a number of different sources, including written material or interviews with subject matter experts, program officials and/or policy makers, ensuring there are no conflicts with policies and objectives of related programs; reviewing responses to congressional inquiries on complex issues related to the mission, policies, programs and initiatives; interacting with all levels of leadership, exhibiting sound judgment, discretion, and attention to detail; and writing and/or editing other content, including web site material and press releases, on a wide-variety of topics.
 B. I do not possess the experience described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
3. Indicate the extent to which you have reviewed or edited documents for proper content, format, grammar, spelling, typographical errors, and conformity with instructions or manuals.

 A. I have proofread documents, correspondence, or forms and identified typographical or grammatical errors.
 B. I have reviewed and edited documents for proper content, format, grammar, spelling, typographical errors, logical sequencing of information, and conformity to an organization's technical writing style and standards.
 C. I have reviewed and edited complex documents for grammar, spelling, logical sequencing of information, and conciseness, and I have verified completeness, correctness, and consistency.
4. Indicate the extent to which you have advised employees, managers, or other groups on technical, procedural, or policy issues related to preparation of written materials.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have answered routine questions from employees or supervisors on non-controversial matters or well-established policies, procedures, and regulations related to preparation of written materials.
 C. I have advised employees, supervisors, and managers on moderately complex regulatory, technical, or procedural issues related to preparation of written materials.
 D. I have advised management or other groups on complex or precedent-setting regulatory, technical, or procedural issues related to preparation of written materials.
5. Indicate the extent to which you have written speeches articulating complex and potentially controversial organizational policies, programs, and activities.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have provided input into speeches about routine organizational policies, programs, and activities.
 C. I have independently written speeches articulating complex organizational policies, programs, and activities.
 D. I have independently written speeches on controversial/complex organizational policies, programs, and activities for use by senior management. My experience includes writing speeches surrounding topics that were at risk of being negatively received.
 E. I have independently written speeches on controversial/complex organizational policies, programs, and activities for use by an organization's senior leadership. I have served as the senior speechwriting official for my organization due to my skill in writing speeches.
6. Indicate the extent of your experience developing and implementing an organization's editorial policies.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have created written work for an organization that was in compliance with all established editorial policies.
 C. I have been a member of a group tasked with updating or developing new editorial policies for my organization.
 D. I have developed new editorial policies for my organization, and have been responsible for ensuring the successful implementation of these policies.
7. Indicate the extent of your experience maintaining program and administrative reference materials, project files, and relevant background documents.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had some experience assisting others in the completion of program and administrative reference materials, project files, and relevant background documents.
 C. I have independently created program and administrative reference materials, project files, and relevant background documents that have been disseminated to my work unit.
 D. I have been responsible for creating and maintaining administrative reference materials, project files, and relevant background documents for my organization. I have periodically participated in administrative reviews to ensure all documents were in compliance with applicable laws and policies.
8. Indicate the extent of your experience in writing and editing executive-level documents.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have edited executive-level documents to ensure proper spelling, grammar, and organization.
 C. I have performed detailed editing of confidential or highly technical executive-level documents to ensure compliance with organization style and brand guidelines as well as applicable rules and regulations.
 D. I have extensive experience creating executive-level documents that are highly technical, confidential in nature, and have organization-wide impact within very short timelines and with little advance notice. In addition, I have overseen the detailed editing of all executive-level documents to ensure compliance with organization style and brand guidelines as well as applicable rules and regulations.
9. Indicate the extent of your experience researching and fact-checking documents.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have researched and fact-checked sections of a document to ensure accuracy and have provided feedback to a supervisor or more senior individual.
 C. I have researched and fact-checked a variety of highly technical and complex documents. I have been responsible for ensuring documents were accurate and comprehensive.
 D. I have overseen the research and fact-checking of all relevant documents for my organization. I have directed any necessary corrections or updates to ensure documents were technically accurate, comprehensive, and appropriate in scope.
10. Indicate the extent of your experience establishing and maintaining an organization's brand.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have ensured my work products are in compliance with my organization's established brand.
 C. I have worked as a member of a team to update or refine my organization's brand to enhance its recognizability to external stakeholders.
 D. I have led a team in creating and maintaining a highly recognizable brand for my organization. I have been responsible for ensuring all work products adhere to this brand.
11. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of the Plain Writing Act of 2010.

 A. I have no knowledge of this Act.
 B. I am familiar with the Plain Writing Act of 2010, and have ensured my writing complied with the legislation.
 C. I have extensive knowledge of the Plain Writing Act of 2010, and have ensured my writing complied with the legislation. In addition, I have trained others in my work group or organization on the Act.
 D. I have expert knowledge of the Plain Writing Act of 2010, and have been responsible for ensuring that my organization's written documents are in compliance with the legislation.
12. Do you have experience writing or editing law-enforcement related materials?

 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Indicate the extent of your experience improving communication with external stakeholders.

 A. I have communicated with internal stakeholders, but have limited experience communicating with external stakeholders.
 B. I frequently communicate with external stakeholders during the course of my normal duties on a variety of topics, and have identified methods for improving communication with these groups.
 C. I have developed formal recommendations for improving communications with external stakeholders, and have been responsible for overseeing the implementation of these recommendations.
14. Indicate the extent of your experience in planning and organizing work.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had limited experience in planning and organizing work for a small team.
 C. I have planned and organized the day-to-day work of my immediate work unit on a continuous basis.
 D. I have directed and overseen the mid- to long-range (i.e. quarterly or annual) planning and organization of work for my immediate work unit when there were complicating factors (e.g., conflicting priorities, work involving multiple disciplines).
 E. I have directed and overseen the planning and organization of work for a multi-unit organization. I have established criteria and priorities and reviewed, amended, and consolidated work plans developed by subordinates.
15. Select the option that best describes your ability to manage projects (e.g., set goals, identify issues, and prioritize projects).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have followed process timelines, goals, and guidelines prepared by my supervisor.
 C. Under the close guidance of others, I have developed project plans (for example, set timelines, established metrics, identified necessary resources).
 D. I have independently managed one or more projects that were limited in scope. I have had responsibility for setting timelines, establishing metrics, and identifying necessary resources.
 E. I have independently planned, implemented, and managed multiple projects that were broad in scope or were complex, involving multiple entities. I have had responsibility for ensuring that needed resources were provided, metrics were tracked, and goals were accomplished.
16. Indicate the extent of your experience handling sensitive information (e.g., classified information, operationally sensitive information, intelligence information, employee information).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received basic training in this area and have been responsible for safeguarding sensitive information in accordance with prescribed procedures.
 C. I have extensive knowledge of the procedures for safeguarding sensitive information and have provided guidance and direction to others in this area.
 D. I have been responsible for the oversight of sensitive information, to include ensuring adherence with all policies and procedures at a work group level or higher.
17. Indicate the extent to which you have gathered and analyzed facts, determined the accuracy of the data or information, defined the problem, and identified solutions.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have gathered data or information in preparation for analysis by others.
 C. I have gathered data or information, analyzed it, and summarized the results of my findings.
 D. I have gathered data or information, performed analyses, summarized results, and identified problem areas.
 E. I have gathered data and narrative information, performed analyses, summarized results, identified problem areas, and proposed or implemented solutions.
18. Indicate the extent of your experience in using Microsoft Office software.

 A. I have had no training in or experience with Microsoft Office software.
 B. I am familiar with the basic capabilities of Microsoft Office software, to include Word, Excel, Access, and PowerPoint. I have used at least one of these software products in the course of my daily job.
 C. I have experience using multiple software products from Microsoft Office (e.g., Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint) during the course of my daily job.
 D. I have extensive experience using multiple software products from Microsoft Office (e.g., Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint). Because of my expert knowledge, I frequently provide formal or informal training to my coworkers on the software product(s).
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected