Position Title
SUPERVISORY RECREATION SPECIALIST (COMMUNITY RECREATION)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
JRM-25-370 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sunday, June 29, 2025 to Monday, July 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I am willing to work split days off, evenings, weekends, holidays, early and/or late.  I am also willing to be recalled regularly.  Yes/No button

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. I am willing and able to travel away from my duty location.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the specialized experience, education, and/or training to qualify for the NAF Supervisory Recreation Specialist (Community Recreation) position.  Failure to meet the basic requirement(s) and/or specialized experience; failure to respond to the question(s); and/or failure to provide required documentation will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below and required documentation uploaded at the time of submission of application/resume packet for this position.
1. Choose the statement that best describes your experience, and/or education related to this position. (Resume MUST reflect experience, MUST upload official transcripts, and/or MUST upload personnel action/SF50 or equivalent)
 A. A Bachelor’s degree in in recreation, physical education, business, marketing, or related field AND 1 year of full time work experience related to recreation and/or special events (Resume MUST reflect experience and MUST upload official transcripts)
 B. At least 1 full year of graduate level education in recreation, physical education, business, marketing, or related field (MUST upload official transcripts)
 C. At least 4 years of full time work experience related to recreation and/or special events (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 D. At least 1 year of full time work experience related to recreation and/or special events at the NF-03/GS-05 level (Resume MUST reflect experience AND MUST upload personnel action/SF50 or equivalent)
 E. None of the statements apply to me
2. Choose the statement that best applies to you. (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 A. Currently holds a supervisory recreation specialist position or a position responsible for planning, promoting, coordinating, and/or implementing recreation activities and/or events within CNIC (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 B. Currently holds a supervisory recreation specialist position or a position responsible for planning, promoting, coordinating, and/or implementing recreation activities and/or events within DoD (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 C. Has held a supervisory recreation specialist position or a position responsible for planning, promoting, coordinating, and/or implementing recreation activities and/or events within the last 3 years (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 D. None of the statements apply to me
3. Choose the statement that best describes your work experience related to this position (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 A. Has 5+ years of full time work experience in a supervisory recreation specialist position or a position responsible for planning, promoting, coordinating, and/or implementing recreation activities and/or events (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 B. Has 3+ years of full time work experience in a supervisory recreation specialist position or a position responsible for planning, promoting, coordinating, and/or implementing recreation activities and/or events (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 C. Has 1+ years of full time work experience in a supervisory recreation specialist position or a position responsible for planning, promoting, coordinating, and/or implementing recreation activities and/or events (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 D. None of the statements apply to me
4. Choose the statement that best describes your work experience related to this position (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 A. Has 5+ years of full time work experience performing the full-range of supervisory duties for staff, i.e. performance reviews, disciplinary, directing work, training, approving leave, etc. (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 B. Has 3+ years of full time work experience performing the full-range of supervisory duties for staff, i.e. performance reviews, disciplinary, directing work, training, approving leave, etc. (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 C. Has 1+ years of full time work experience performing the full-range of supervisory duties for staff, i.e. performance reviews, disciplinary, directing work, training, approving leave, etc. (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 D. None of the statements apply to me
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected