Position Title
Human Resources Specialist
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
CC-25-12755755 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, June 27, 2025 to Friday, July 11, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Conditions of Employment
1. This position requires selectee to satisfactorily complete all background checks in accordance with PL 101-647 to include National Agency Check with Written Inquiries (NACI). If access to Government computer, databases, and/or systems is required in the performance of duties, the incumbent must pass SF- 86/Eligibility for Secret Clearance upon hire and periodically thereafter as a condition of employment. To obtain a Secret Clearance, selectee must be a U.S. Citizen. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Human Resources Specialist position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you have at least 3 years of specialized human resources (HR) experience (e.g. skill in applying HR principles, concepts, and practices, process personnel actions, prepare job descriptions and review qualification requirements) working in a Human Resources Office (HRO)
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. My resume reflects experience in the following HR disciplines:
 A. Background and employment suitability checks
 B. Compensation and Benefits
 C. Employee Relations
 D. Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO)
 E. Labor Relations
 F. Position Classification
 G. Recruitment and Staffing
 H. Staff Training and Development
 I. Succession planning
 J. Workforce planning and employment
 K. Workers Compensation
 L. Personnel File Management
 M. Employment Law/Legal Compliance
 N. Relocation/Permanent Change of Station (PCS)
 O. Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel
 P. None of the above
3. Select ALL the Human Resources Information System(s) that you have utilized to include recruitment tools, payroll systems and background check programs, etc.
 A. SAP HR
 B. KRONOS
 C. ADP
 D. E-QIP
 E. FED HR
 F. USA Staffing
 G. Other System not listed
 H. N/A
4. Please specify how many years of experience you have performing the following duties: preparing vacancy announcements, coordinating with recruitment sources to post announcements, evaluating candidate qualifications for vacancies, preparing certificates of eligible candidates for selecting officials, making job offers, and/or establishing reporting dates.
 A. I possess no experience with the above mentioned.
 B. I possess less than one (1) year of experience with the above mentioned.
 C. I possess between one (1) and three (3) years of experience with the above mentioned.
 D. I possess between three (3) and four (4) years of experience with the above mentioned.
 E. I possess more than four (4) years of experience with the above mentioned.
5. What type of organizations have you provided HR services to? Select all that apply. (Must be supported by your Personnel Action Report (PAR), SF50 or Equivalent).
 A. Private business or Private sector organization
 B. Government Agency outside of the Department of Defense (DOD)
 C. Department of Defense Appropriated Fund (APF)
 D. Department of Defense Non-Appropriated Fund (NAF)
 E. Commander Navy Installation Command (CNIC)
 F. Commander Navy Region Southeast (CNRSE)
6. Please indicate your years of experience and proficiency in negotiation procedures and conflict resolution techniques, particularly as they relate to problem solving, advising management, and handling sensitive or highly contested case matters.
 A. I possess no experience as described above.
 B. I possess less than one (1) year of experience as described above.
 C. I possess between one (1) and three (3) years of experience as described above.
 D. I possess between three (3) and four (4) years of experience as described above.
 E. I possess more than four (4) years of experience as described above.
7. How many years' work experience do you have in composing correspondence and analyzing HR data for individuals, management officials, employees, other agencies, and/or insurance company staff members to ensure prompt processing of actions and dissemination of information?
 A. I possess no experience as described above.
 B. I possess less than one (1) year experience with analyzing HR data and composing HR correspondence.
 C. I possess one (1) to three (3) years experience with analyzing HR data and composing HR correspondence.
 D. I possess more than three (3) years experience with analyzing HR data and composing HR correspondence.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected