Position Title
Utility Systems Repairer - Operator
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
PW-1545-OLYM-25-12796351-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 11, 2025 to Tuesday, September 16, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you meet one of the following Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibilities:
Current Federal or former employees with career or career- conditional appointments in the competitive service that hold, or have held a career or career-conditional position at a lower grade level as the position being announced; or,
Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) eligibles
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation.  For example, a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your competitive status or a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a former member of the Public Lands Corps (PLC) who has served the time required for completing a PLC project carried out on Federal land within the preceding 2 years (an individuals eligibility for NCE under this authority shall not exceed 2 years after completion of his/her last PLC project), and:

• Served as a qualified youth on an appropriate conservation project completing a minimum of 640 hours of satisfactory service that included at least 120 hours through the PLC (individuals must provide a copy of the "Certificate of Eligibility for NCE Hiring Based on PLC Service" and the complete PLC Participant Work Hours Verification Form with your application package in order to be considered under this hiring authority), and

• Meet OPM qualification standards and any other qualification requirement(s) stated in this vacancy announcement for the position in which you are applying.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.  
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who:
was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; and,
served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; and,
performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; and,
if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing.
 
To verify your eligibility, you must provide documentation for the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA) eligibility, which includes ALL Appointment AND Termination SF-50s for EACH appointment as well as ALL performance evaluations, for each qualifying period of temporary employment claimed.
For more information, review Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA).
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Do you meet one of the following Non-Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibilities:
Disabled veteran receiving 30% or more disability compensation from the VA;
Transfer, reassignment or reinstatement eligible:  current Federal or former employee with career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service that hold, or have previously held a career or career-conditional position at the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being announced; or,
Individual eligible under other non-competitive appointment authorities such as: Veterans Recruitment Authority; Military spouses under E.O. 13473; Certain former overseas employees; Present and former Peace Corps, Vista or Action volunteers; Former White House staff; Present and former Foreign Service officers and employees; Certain National Guard technicians; Schedule A; OPM Interchange Agreement and Other Miscellaneous Authorities.
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation.  For example, a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service; a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50); etc.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. As part of the official duties of this position, the incumbent is required to operate a Government vehicle. As such, applicants are required to have a valid State-issued Driver's License prior to the closing date of the job announcement.

Please note: you will be required to submit a Motor Vehicle Operator's License and Driving Record. You must also submit (within a State sealed envelope or submitted directly by the State authorities), and at your own expense, all certified driving records from all States that disclose all valid driver's licenses, whether current or past, possessed by you.

Please chose the best response option regarding your license status.
 A. I have a valid State-issued Driver's License.
 B. I will be able to obtain a valid State-issued Driver's License prior to the closing date of the job announcement.
 C. I do NOT have a valid State-issued Driver's License and unable to obtain one prior to the closing date of the announcement. By selecting this option, I acknowledge that I do not meet this requirement and will be marked ineligible.
2. My performance is at an acceptable level and I am not serving under a formal Performance Improvement Plan (PIP).
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Not Applicable
A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.
3. This position requires the incumbent to have a Washington State Wastewater Treatment Plant Operator Level 1 certification within 1 year of entry of duty.

Please mark the answer below that best matches how you meet this requirement.
 A. Yes, I possess a Washington State Wastewater Treatment Plant Operator Level 1 certification.
 B. No, I do not possess a Washington State Wastewater Treatment Plant Operator Level 1 certification. However, I am able to obtain a Washington State Wastewater Treatment Plant Operator Level 1 certification within 1 year of employment.
 C. No, I do not meet either of the requirements stated above.
4. This position requires the incumbent to have a State of Washington Water Distribution Manager (WDM) Level 1 License within 1 year of entry of duty.

Please mark the answer below that best matches how you meet this requirement.
 A. Yes, I possess a State of Washington Water Distribution Manager (WDM) Level 1 License
 B. No, I do not possess a State of Washington Water Distribution Manager (WDM) Level 1 License. However, I am able to obtain a State of Washington Water Distribution Manager (WDM) Level 1 License within 1 year of employment.
 C. No, I do not meet either of the requirements stated above.
5. This position requires the incumbent to have a State of Washington Water Treatment Plant Operator Level 1 certification within 1 year of entry of duty.

Please mark the answer below that best matches how you meet this requirement.
 A. Yes, I possess a Washington State Water Treatment Plant Operator Level 1 certification
 B. No, I do not possess a Washington State Water Treatment Plant Operator Level 1 certification. However, I am able to obtain a Washington State Water Treatment Plant Operator Level 1 certification within 1 year of employment.
 C. No, I do not meet either of the requirements stated above.
Assessment 1
Ability to do the Work of a Utility Systems Repairer-Operator Without More Than Normal Supervision (Screen-Out) (Approved Job Element 1)
1. From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience and/or training that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. YOU MUST DOCUMENT/VERIFY YOUR RESPONSE IN YOUR RESUME/APPLICATION.

 A. I am able to perform the full range of Utility Systems Repairer-Operator duties on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection. Duties performed include: 1) Independently monitor pumping equipment, read meters, gauges and charts and records readings; 2) Prepares reports for supervisors or higher graded workers; 3) Responsible for monitor equipment and meters in accordance with a prescribed schedule such as pumps, flume meters, and outlets; 4) Perform plumbing tasks such as replacing hose bibs, valves, nipples, unions and elbows, fixtures, flush valves and various types of pipes; 5) Perform minor repairs to buildings of utility facilities. I have experience working independently with wastewater treatment, water distribution, and water treatment for public and domestic use.
 B. I am able to perform most Utility Systems Repairer-Operator duties without more than normal supervision. Duties performed include: working knowledge as a helper to a journeyman USRO of the processes of Wastewater Treatment and regulatory compliance of water and wastewater systems; the conditions of plants and equipment; standard operating procedures for the systems; and industry skills and practices related to the materials, repair parts, diagnostic equipment, installation procedures, tools, and regulatory codes associated with each system and facility. I have worked with storage and distribution water systems for public and domestic use, with close supervision. I have experience in the operation, maintenance, repair, and monitoring of wastewater lift station pumping equipment and operating conditions to determine process requirements.
 C. I am able to perform the common Utility Systems Repairer-Operator duties under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level Utility Systems Repairer-Operator who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed. Duties performed include: working knowledge as a helper to a journeyman USRO of the processes of Wastewater Treatment and regulatory compliance of water and wastewater systems; the conditions of plants and equipment; standard operating procedures for the systems; and industry skills and practices related to the materials, repair parts, diagnostic equipment, installation procedures, tools, and regulatory codes associated with each system and facility. I have worked with storage and distribution water systems for public and domestic use, with close supervision. I have some experience in the operation, maintenance, repair, and monitoring of wastewater lift station pumping equipment and operating conditions to determine process requirements under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level Utility Systems Repairer-Operator.
 D. I am able to perform simple plumbing tasks, but I know little or nothing about wastewater treatment/collection or water production/treatment/distribution but I'm willing to learn.
 E. I do not have experience with the work described above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected