Position Title
Judicial Conference Secretariat Officer
Agency
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts
Announcement Number
25-JCS-12756091 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 1, 2025 to Tuesday, June 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current employee of the AO or the Federal Judiciary?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former Federal employee?

All applicants outside of the AO must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) to verify current or former Federal employment status.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Judicial Conference Secretariat Officer position with the federal government. Applicants must have demonstrated experience as listed below. This requirement is according to the AO Classification, Compensation, and Recruitment Systems which include interpretive guidance and reference to the OPM Operating Manual for Qualification Standards for General Schedule Positions.

WHEN MANDATORY NARRATIVE RESPONSES ARE REQUIRED, PLEASE DO NOT DUPLICATE INFORMATION YOU HAVE ALREADY PROVIDED IN YOUR RESUME AS A RESPONSE TO THIS QUESTION. WE ARE SEEKING AN ELABORATION OF THOSE DUTIES AND SKILLS YOU HAVE MENTIONED WHICH ADDRESS THE QUESTION MORE FULLY. THIS IS YOUR OPPORTUNITY TO EXPAND ON YOUR EXPERIENCE AND/OR EDUCATION AS IT RELATES TO THE QUESTION. FAILURE TO DO THIS WILL RESULT IN YOUR BEING CONSIDERED AS INELIGIBLE.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you possess a law degree (J.D., LL.B., or LL.M.) from a law school accredited by the American Bar Association?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a member of the bar of a state, territory, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a Federal court of general jurisdiction? (Bar Membership/License Required)

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you have at least 4 years of post J.D. legal experience?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Do you have at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-15/JSP-15/CL 31, or equivalent level?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Applicants must have at least one full year (52 weeks) (preferably 4 or more years) of specialized experience which provides evidence of progressively responsible leadership experience that is indicative of executive level managerial capability and directly related to the skills and abilities outlined in the Mandatory Technical Qualifications (MTQs) and Executive Core Qualifications (ECQs) listed in the vacancy announcement. Specialized experience for this position is defined as follows:
Senior level experience in a legal capacity with responsibility for providing executive leadership to a large and diverse organization which clearly demonstrates ability to manage people and resources. This experience must be evidenced by sophisticated legal and analytical skills, superior written and oral communication skills, sound judgment, and experience in interacting with government and non-government officials.
Demonstrated experience working as an attorney at a senior level providing legal advice on complex and sensitive issues to high-level executives and officials in a government agency or other entity.
 A. Yes, I have one year of specialized experience which is in or directly related to the line of work of this position.
 B. No, I do not possess the specialized experience described above.
6. If A is selected above, a narrative statement must be submitted in the space provided below addressing your demonstrated senior level experience in a legal capacity with responsibility for providing executive leadership to a large and diverse organization which clearly demonstrates ability to manage people and resources. This experience must be evidenced by sophisticated legal and analytical skills, superior written and oral communication skills, sound judgment, and experience in interacting with government and non-government officials. THIS IS A MANDATORY REQUIREMENT. Please limit your response to 500 words or less.
7. If A is selected above, a narrative statement must be submitted in the space provided below addressing your demonstrated experience working as an attorney at a senior level providing legal advice on complex and sensitive issues to high-level executives and officials in a government agency or other entity. THIS IS A MANDATORY REQUIREMENT. Please limit your response to 500 words or less.
8. From the options listed below, please select the years of experience working as a senior level attorney providing legal advice on complex and sensitive issues to high-level executives and officials in a government agency or other entity.
 A. 10 or more years.
 B. 5-10 years.
 C. 1-5 years.
 D. Less than 1 year.
A narrative response for each of the following Mandatory Technical Qualifications (MTQs) is MANDATORY and must be addressed in a separate document that is submitted with your application.
Please provide a statement describing your demonstrated expert knowledge of the Legislative, Executive, and Judicial Branches of the Federal Government. Experience with and knowledge of relevant Federal laws, procedural and administrative rules and regulations, and canons of statutory construction. (Please provide your response in a separate document)
Please provide a statement describing your demonstrated expert experience advising members of the legal and governmental community with diverse viewpoints and backgrounds, including the bench, bar, academic community, bar associations, Department of Justice, and other legal and government agencies, Members of Congress and Congressional staff, media, and public. (Please provide your response in a separate document)
Please provide a statement describing your demonstrated excellent skills in oral and written presentation of complicated legal matters. This includes expert knowledge of and experience in a wide breadth of laws, statutes, policies, and proceedings with excellent negotiation and communication skills to ensure all information is clear and effectively ensures the desired outcome; and the ability to express, orally and in writing, complex legal issues in clear and succinct language so that the concepts are easily understood by both lawyers and non-lawyers. (Please provide your response in a separate document)
Please provide a statement describing your demonstrated expert experience conducting and overseeing legal research and the preparation of legal documents; and preparing responses in the form of letters and memoranda for use by AO leaders and staff ,judges, and other court employees (i.e., particular points of law; background information and legal references as a basis for advising on plans and policies; and compilation of legal issues and legislative history in connection with pending legislation). (Please provide your response in a separate document)
A narrative response for each of the following Executive Core Qualifications (ECQs) is MANDATORY. Exception: applicants currently serving in an AOES and Court Unit Executive positions or under a career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointment, eligible for reinstatement into SES, or have successfully completed a SES Candidate Development Program (CDP) approved by OPM are not required to submit a narrative response for the Executive Core Qualifications (ECQ). All other applicants must submit responses to the ECQs.
Please provide a statement describing your experience LEADING CHANGE. This core qualification involves experience in developing and implementing an organizational vision, which integrates key national and program goals, priorities, values, and other factors. The incumbent must be able to develop new insights into situations, question conventional approaches, encourage new ideas and innovations, and design and implement new or cutting-edge programs and processes. The incumbent must also be able to think strategically, formulate objectives and priorities, and implement plans consistent with the long-term interests of the organization in a global environment while capitalizing on opportunities, managing risks, and overcoming obstacles. (Key Competencies: Creativity and Innovation, Continual Learning, External Awareness, Flexibility, Resilience, Strategic Thinking, Vision) (Please provide your response in a separate document)
Please provide a statement describing your experience LEADING PEOPLE. This core qualification involves experience in designing and implementing strategies, which maximize employee potential and foster high ethical standards in meeting the organization's vision, mission, and goals, including adherence to EEO guidelines. This includes fostering a work environment where individual differences are valued, managed, and leveraged to achieve, through teamwork, the vision and mission of the organization. The incumbent should be able to develop others to perform and contribute to the organization by providing ongoing feedback and providing opportunities to learn through formal and informal methods. This includes taking a long-term view and building a shared vision with others, acting as a catalyst for organizational change, and influencing others to translate vision into action. (Key Competencies: Organizational Awareness, Interpersonal Skills, Integrity/Honesty, Conflict Management, Team Building, Developing Others) (Please provide your response in a separate document)
Please provide a statement describing your BUSINESS ACUMEN. This core qualification involves experience in building and managing a workforce based on organizational goals and staffing needs. It also involves ensuring that employees are appropriately recruited, selected, appraised, and rewarded, and taking action to address performance plans. The incumbent should have experience in managing a multi-sector workforce and a variety of work situations, and in developing and managing budgets and contracts. This includes keeping up to date on technological developments, making effective use of technology to achieve results, and ensuring access to and security of technology systems. (Key Competencies: Financial Management, Human Resources Management, Technology Management, Procurement Management) (Please provide your response in a separate document)
Please provide a statement describing your experience with RESULTS-DRIVEN skills. This core qualification involves experience in stressing accountability and continuous improvement, making timely and effective decisions, and producing results through strategic planning and the implementation and evaluation of programs and policies. The incumbent should have the requisite technical knowledge to identify and pursue appropriate outcomes, as well as practical experience in anticipating and meeting the needs of both internal and external customers, delivering high-quality products and services, and resolving issues and problems. (Key Competencies: Accountability, Customer Service, Decisiveness, Entrepreneurship, Problem Solving, Technical Credibility) (Please provide your response in a separate document)
Please provide a statement describing your experience BUILDING COALITIONS/COMMUNICATION. This core qualification involves experience in developing networks, building alliances, and collaborating across boundaries to build strategic relationships and achieving common goals. This core qualification also involves identifying the internal and external politics that impact the work of the organization. The incumbent should have experience in persuading others, building consensus through give and take, and gaining cooperation from others to obtain information and accomplish goals. (Key Competencies: Influencing/Negotiating, Oral Communication, Written Communication, Partnering) (Please provide your response in a separate document)
9. Applicants who meet the specialized experience requirements also will be assessed on Mandatory Technical Qualifications (MTQ) and Executive Core Qualifications (ECQ). Each of the MTQ must be addressed in your resume, and a separate response to each ECQ is mandatory and must be addressed in a separate document that is submitted with your application. Please limit your response to two pages for each MTQ & ECQ.
 A. Yes, I have addressed each MTQ in my resume, and each ECQ with a narrative response in a separate document that is attached to my application, and I have responded to the specialized experience narrative statement.
 B. No, I did not address each ECQ with a narrative response in a separate document. I have held or am currently in an AOES/SES position, have held an AOES/SES position or have successfully completed an SES Candidate Development Program (CDP) approved by OPM. I have addressed each of the MTQs in a separate document that is attached to my application, and I have responded to the specialized experience narrative statement.
 C. No, I did not address each MTQ, ECQ, or specialized experience statement with a narrative response in a separate document. I understand this will result in my ineligibility for this position.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
10. I understand that failure to provide proof of Bar Membership will result in an incomplete application and could result in non-consideration for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. I understand that failure to provide a written statement ("See Resume" or other non-descriptive response is not sufficient) for each essay question could result in non-consideration for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected