Position Title
SMALL ARMS REPAIRER (TITLE 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-12806663-AR-25-219 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 29, 2025 to Tuesday, October 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required. 

 Yes
 No


Requirements
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at (G4-MATES) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at a NC ARNG unit/activity, other than (G4-MATES) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC Army National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently assigned to one of the following: Active Duty Army, Army Reserve, or a State/Territory Army National Guard other than North Carolina.
 I am not currently assigned to one of the areas listed above.


2.
Are you currently assigned militarily as an Enlisted (E3-E8)?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.   
 


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the Minimum Requirements that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a WG-09 Small Arms Repairer.
 I HAVE experience or training which demonstrates, 1) a working knowledge to read and interpret instructions, repair manual, specifications and drawings, 2) knowledge of shop mathematics sufficient to use testing devices and measuring instruments and 3) proficient in the use and maintenance of hand tools and equipment.
 I DO NOT HAVE the experience, education, or training listed above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a WG-09 Small Arm Repairer.
 I HAVE at least 18 months experience or training with substantial mechanical skill is required to 1) effectively and efficiently repair, overhaul, and rebuild small arms for both conventional uses and for weapons involving accurization, 2) inspect, diagnose malfunctioning, wear and/or damage is required, 3) apply technical manuals, regulations, specifications and drawings to determine operation, assembly and tolerances of the variety of weapons worked on is required for successful performance, and 4) use and maintain a variety of hand and power tools and gages is required.
 I DO NOT have at least 18 months of the experience, education or training listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙