Position Title
Staff Psychologist - General Mental Health
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSV-12816651-26-DB Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, October 20, 2025 to Friday, October 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), no person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. You must be proficient in basic written and spoken English in order to perform the duties of this position.
 Yes, I am proficient in basic written and spoken English.
 No, I am not proficient in basic written and spoken English; therefore, I am ineligible for further consideration.


2.
In order to qualify at any grade level in the GS-0180 Psychologist occupational series, one must meet the following educational qualification. Please select the response that best describes your level of education.
 I possess a doctoral degree in psychology from a graduate program in psychology accredited by the American Psychological Association (APA), the Psychological Clinical Science Accreditation System (PCSAS), or the Canadian Psychological Association (CPA) at the time the program was completed. The specialty area of the degree must be consistent with the assignment for which the applicant is to be employed. For the purpose of meeting this requirement, the term “specialty area” refers to the specific specialty areas recognized by the accrediting body and not to specific job duties that might require special skills. Currently, APA accredits doctoral programs in the specialty areas of clinical psychology, counseling psychology, school psychology, or combinations of two or more of those areas. PCSAS accredits doctoral programs in psychological clinical science. CPA accredits doctoral programs in clinical psychology, counseling psychology, clinical neuropsychology, and school psychology. There are no job assignments in VHA that require the skills of a school psychologist; therefore, an applicant with a degree in the specialty area of school psychology is not eligible for appointment. Strictly for the purpose of determining eligibility for appointment as a psychologist in VHA, there is no distinction between the specialty areas (except for school psychology). (NOTE: Copy of transcripts is required.)
 I possess a doctoral degree in any area of psychology and, in addition, successfully completed a re-specialization program (including documentation of an approved internship completed as part of the re-specialization program) meeting both of the following conditions: (a) The re-specialization program must be completed in an APA or a CPA accredited doctoral program; and, (b) the specialty in which the applicant is retrained must be consistent with the assignment for which the applicant is to be employed. (Note: The applicant must provide an official transcript and/or certificate documenting the completion of the re-specialization program, which includes completion of an APA or CPA internship. Psychologists who have successfully completed a re-specialization program as described above and who were employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs prior to the implementation of this standard are considered to have fully met the educational requirements of these qualification standards.)
 I possess a doctoral degree awarded between 1951 and 1978 from a regionally accredited institution, with a dissertation primarily psychological in nature. (NOTE: Copy of transcript is required.)
 I will possess the doctoral degree as described above once I complete my internship.
 I do not possess any of the education requirements described above; therefore, I am ineligible for further consideration.


3.
In addition to required education, psychologists within VHA must also complete an internship. Please select the response that best describes your internship.
 I have successfully completed a professional psychology internship training program that was accredited by APA or CPA at the time the program was completed and that is consistent with the assignment for which the applicant is to be employed. (Note: Information regarding internship must appear on resume.)
 I completed a new VHA psychology internship program in the process of applying for APA accreditation and is acceptable in fulfillment of the internship requirement, provided that such programs were sanctioned by the VHA Central Office Program Director for Psychology and the VHA Office of Academic Affiliations at the time that the individual was an intern; (Note: Information regarding internship must appear on resume.)
 VHA facilities that offered full-time, one-year pre-doctoral internships prior to PL 96-151 (pre1979) are acceptable in fulfillment of the internship requirement; (Note: Information regarding internship must appear on resume.)
 Applicants who completed an internship that was not accredited by APA or CPA at the time the program was completed may be considered eligible for hire only if they are currently board certified by the American Board of Professional Psychology in a specialty area that is consistent with the assignment for which the applicant is to be employed. (NOTE: Once board certified, the employee is required to maintain board certification.)
 Applicants who have a doctoral degree awarded between 1951 and 1978 from a regionally accredited institution with a dissertation primarily psychological in nature may fulfill this internship requirement by having the equivalent of a one-year supervised internship experience in a site specifically acceptable to the candidate’s doctoral program. If the internship experience is not noted on the applicant’s official transcript, the applicant must provide a statement from the doctoral program verifying that the equivalent of a one-year supervised internship experience was completed in a site acceptable to the doctoral program. (Note: Information regarding internship must appear on resume.)
 I do not possess any of the internship requirements described above; however, I will compete my internship within 90 days of this announcement closing.
 I do not possess any of the internship requirements described above; therefore, I am ineligible for further consideration.


4.
Persons hired or reassigned to psychologist positions in the GS-0180 series in VHA must be hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctorial level in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or the District of Columbia.
 Yes, I possess a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctorial level in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or the District of Columbia.
 No, I do not possess a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctorial level in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or the District of Columbia. However, I meet the eligibility requirements and may be given a temporary appointment as a “graduate psychologist” at the GS-11 or GS-12 grade under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405 [(c)(2)(B)] for a period not to exceed two years from the date of employment on the condition that such a psychologist provide care only under the supervision of a psychologist who is licensed. Failure to obtain licensure during that period is justification for termination of the temporary appointment.
 No, I do not meet either of the requirements described above; therefore, I am ineligible for further consideration.


In addition to the basic requirements above, you must also meet the grade level requirements. The following questions will determine your grade eligibility. Please respond to each question accordingly.


5.
The GS-0180-11 Psychologist meets the basic requirements: education, internship, licensure and English language proficiency. Please select the response that best describes your qualifications.
 I meet the basic requirements for GS-11 including education, internship, licensure and English language proficiency.
 I meet the education, internship and English language proficiency. I am not licensed but I’m working towards licensure. I meet the exception for not having a license and I’m eligible for a temporary appointment as a graduate psychologist for a period not to exceed two years from the date of employment on the condition that I am under the supervision of a licensed psychologist.
 I meet the education and English language proficiency. I will complete my internship within 90 days of this announcement closing. (I understand I cannot be hired until internship has been completed and conferred.) I am not licensed but I’m working towards licensure. I meet the exception for not having a license and I’m eligible for a temporary appointment as a graduate psychologist for a period not to exceed two years from the date of employment on the condition that I am under the supervision of a licensed psychologist.
 I do not meet the basic requirements for this position; therefore, I am ineligible for further consideration.


6.
The GS-0180-12 Psychologist meets the basic requirements: education, internship, licensure and English language proficiency and in addition has at least one year of experience as a professional psychologist equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-11). Please select the response that best describes your qualifications.
 I meet the requirements for the GS-12 as described above. In addition, I can demonstrate the following knowledge, skills and abilities: 1. Knowledge of and ability to apply a wide range of professional psychological treatments or assessment methods to a variety of patient populations. 2. Ability to design and implement effective treatment strategies. 3. Ability to incorporate new clinical procedures. 4. Ability to conduct research activities, such as designing and implementing clinical research projects (staff psychologists with specified research job duties). 5. Ability to perform basic research tasks of scholarship and research execution within the context of an established research team, including research participant relations, research documentation, data acquisition, maintenance, and collaboration.
 I meet the requirements for the GS-12 as described above. In addition, I can demonstrate the following knowledge, skills and abilities: 1. Knowledge of and ability to apply a wide range of professional psychological treatments or assessment methods to a variety of patient populations. 2. Ability to design and implement effective treatment strategies. 3. Ability to incorporate new clinical procedures. 4. Ability to conduct research activities, such as designing and implementing clinical research projects (staff psychologists with specified research job duties). 5. Ability to perform basic research tasks of scholarship and research execution within the context of an established research team, including research participant relations, research documentation, data acquisition, maintenance, and collaboration.
 I do not meet the requirements as described for this position; therefore, I am ineligible for this grade level.


7.
The GS-0180-13 Psychologist meets the basic requirements: education, internship, licensure and English language proficiency and in addition has at least two additional years of experience as a professional psychologist with at least one-year equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-12). Please select the response that best describes your qualifications.
 I meet the basic requirements: education, internship, licensure and English language proficiency and in addition have at least two additional years of experience as a professional psychologist with at least one-year equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-12). In addition, I can demonstrate the following KSAs: 1. Knowledge of, and ability to apply, professional psychological treatments to a full range of patient populations. 2. Ability to provide professional advice and consultation in areas related to professional psychology and behavioral health. 3. Knowledge of clinical research literature.
 I do not possess the requirements as described above; therefore, I am ineligible for this grade level.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙