Position Title
Accountant
Agency
Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers
Announcement Number
FLETC-CFO-25-12788368 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 3, 2025 to Monday, September 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you currently employed as a permanent career or career-conditional employee with the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers (FLETC) in the Competitive Service?

To verify your eligibility as a current FLETC employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:

• Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• Your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
12
13
14
FLETC Data Questions
1. How did you learn about this Department of Homeland Security (DHS) job opportunity announcement?
--Select-- 
--Select--
Career Fair
Met a FLETC representative at a recruitment event
Magazine
Newspaper
Radio
TV
Poster
Private Employment Office
State Employment Office (Unemployment Office)
Agency Human Resources Development (bulletin board or other announcement)
Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college
Federal, state, or local Job Information Center
Religious organization
College, university, or career placement counselor
Friend or relative working for this agency
Friend or relative not working for this agency
USAJOBS
Professional Association
Publication
Conference
College Event
Private information service
LinkedIn
Other
2. Select the rating level you received, as applicable to your agency's performance management system, for your last performance appraisal. Please provide a copy of your last performance appraisal.
 A. Outstanding | Achieved Excellence
 B. Exceeds Fully Successful/Highly Successful | Exceeded Expectations
 C. Fully Successful/Pass | Achieved Expectations
 D. Minimally Satisfactory/Minimally Acceptable
 E. Unacceptable/Fail
 F. None of the above
3. Select the types of awards you have received within the last three years.
 A. Quality Step Increase
 B. Special Act or Time Off Award
 C. Performance Award
 D. Honorary Award
 E. Letter of Commendation
 F. None of the above
4. List any education and/or training related to this position (do not provide copies of certificates).
5. I have thoroughly reviewed the 'How to Apply/Required Documents' & 'Qualifications' sections of this Vacancy Announcement to determine which supplemental documents to submit. This may include: Transcripts to verify undergraduate/graduate education; A Current/Non-Award SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, noting current position title, series, grade, position occupied, tenure, highest salary (including basic pay) and duty location if I am a current/former Federal employee; DD-214 if I am a veteran (and SF-15/VA Letter if applicable), etc. I understand that failure to fax or upload required documents by the vacancy announcement's closing date may result in loss of consideration. Answer to this question is required.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1.

Are you applying for a promotion? It is a promotion if you are applying for a general schedule (GS) position that is higher than the grade level you currently hold or previously held in the past. To be considered for a promotion, you must provide SF-50(s) that shows that you have held the next lower GS grade for at least one year. SF-50s that have an effective date within the past year (e.g., General Adjustment SF-50 from this year or Within Rate/Grade Increases (WRI/WGI) SF-50 within a year) do not clearly show that you meet the one-year time-in-grade requirement. That means if you submit an SF-50 that is dated within the last year, you must submit another SF-50 that is dated more than one year ago to clearly demonstrate you meet the time-in-grade requirements.

 A. Yes, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a promotion. I have submitted one or two SF-50(s) that show I have held the next lower GS grade or equivalent (non-GS pay system) for at least one year.
 B. No, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a GS grade that I currently hold or have held in the past. I have submitted an SF-50 to support this claim.
 C. Yes, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a promotion but I have not held the next lower grade or equivalent (non-GS pay system) for at least one year. I was recently promoted to my current grade level within the last year so I do not meet the time-in-grade requirements for promotion.
 D. No, I am not a GS employee and I have not been a GS employee within the last year (e.g. I am in a pay band, or I am an FWS employee, or I have never worked for the federal government) so this is not applicable to me.
2. You must submit a copy of your college transcript (unofficial is acceptable) from an accredited institution listing the college/university, degree confirmation date(s) and applicable courses for the position you are applying to.

If selected, applicants must provide an official college transcript prior to appointment.

I have submitted a copy of my transcript with all required information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Please limit your résumé to 5 pages. If more than 5 pages are submitted, only the first 5 pages will be reviewed to determine your eligibility/qualifications.
DO NOT submit more than one resume, if you do, we will only review the resume with the latest time stamp on it.
Please ensure your resume does not have any photographs on it or any PII.
Please ensure your responses below are supported by information in your resume, if your resume does not reflect the responses, you selected below, you could be removed from further consideration. 
When uploading documentation to your application, please ensure that if you have multiple documents of the same kind, that you combine them into one, and then upload/attach into the correct folder. (e.g. if you have multiple SF-50s, you will need to combine them into one PDF file and then upload under the SF-50 folder. You can adjust your application and documents as needed, BEFORE the announcement closes.
1. Select the one statement that best describes the education/experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Accountant, GS-0510-12/13/14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the federal service.
 A. A Degree: accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing" in this standard. Similarly, "accountant" should be interpreted, generally, as "accountant and/or auditor.")
 B. A Combination of education and experience: at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. The applicant's background must also include oneof the following: Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; or Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A, provided that (a) the applicant has successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors has determined that the applicant has demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in paragraph A; and (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, the applicant's education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements.
 C. I do not possess the education/experience described above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. Are you a current, competitive service employee of FLETC? (To verify you are in the competitive service, check your SF-50 for a 1(one) in block 34. You should also have a 1(one) or 2(two) in block 24.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. From the options below, select one statement that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for an Accountant, GS-0510-12. NOTE: Your resume must support your claim of specialized experience, i.e. where, when and how you performed the work, or you may be found ineligible.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the federal government, performing duties such as 1) Assisting in the planning and implementation of annual ICOFR and ICOOP goals and schedules in coordination with Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Risk Management and Assurance (RM&A) Office, 2) Supporting financial and program managers in resolving accounting and fiscal issues with an emphasis on instituting relevant control activities and validating their effectiveness, 3) Participating in the OMB Circular A-123 compliance program, including planning and scoping for internal control routine monitoring, documenting and testing business and accounting processes, and transforming testing and assessment results into actionable risk mitigation strategies.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience required for this position.
4. From the options below, select one statement that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for an Accountant, GS-0510-13. NOTE: Your resume must support your claim of specialized experience, i.e. where, when and how you performed the work, or you may be found ineligible.
 A. I have one year specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the federal government, performing duties such as 1) Coordinating the planning and implementation of annual ICOFR and ICOOP goals and schedules with the DHS Risk Management and Assurance Office, 2) Serving as an expert on federal bureau-level accounting operations, assisting financial and program managers in resolving complex accounting and fiscal issues with emphasis on instituting relevant control activities and routine monitoring processes to alleviate risks, 3) Managing a robust OMB Circular A-123 compliance program that includes planning and scoping for internal control routine monitoring, documenting and testing business and accounting processes, transforming testing and assessment results into actionable risk mitigation strategies, routinely monitoring those control activities, and validating their effectiveness.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience required for this position.
5. From the options below, select one statement that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for an Accountant, GS-0510-14. NOTE: Your resume must support your claim of specialized experience, i.e. where, when and how you performed the work, or you may be found ineligible.
 A. I have one year specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the federal government, performing duties such as 1) Coordinating the planning and implementation of annual ICOFR and ICOOP goals and schedules with the DHS Risk Management and Assurance Office, 2) Serving as an expert on federal bureau-level accounting operations, assisting financial and program managers in resolving complex accounting and fiscal issues with emphasis on instituting relevant control activities and routine monitoring processes to alleviate risks, 3) Managing a robust OMB Circular A-123 compliance program that includes planning and scoping for internal control routine monitoring, documenting and testing business and accounting processes, transforming testing and assessment results into actionable risk mitigation strategies, routinely monitoring those control activities, and validating their effectiveness, 4) Advising on proper preparation of Corrective/Mission Action Plan for internal control deficiencies and audit findings and conducts internal verification and validation of remediation actions and 5)Serving as an expert in accounting/auditing procedures and policy compliance, and responding to audit teams' questions related to the internal control routine monitoring program.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience required for this position.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
6. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, ALL of the information provided on this application is true, accurate, and complete, and that this application for employment is made in good faith. I understand that a false statement on any part of this application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that I may be punished by fine or imprisonment for falsification of my employment application (18 USC 1001). I understand that information I give may be investigated as allowed by law or Executive order. Do you understand and agree to all the above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected