Position Title
Blind Rehabilitation Outpatient Specialist (BROS)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSZ-12791755-25-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 11, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
11
12
2. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
3. A current, valid state-issued Driver's License is required for this position. NOTE: We cannot accept photographs, therefore; please do not submit a copy of your license with your application package. If an interview is requested, you will be required to provide a copy of your current, valid state-issued Driver's License.

Do you possess a current and valid state-issued driver's license?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Please provide your driver's license number, issuing state and expiration date. Reminder - Do not include a copy of your license; if referred for interview it may be requested at that time.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
5. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Blind Rehabilitation Outpatient Specialist (BROS) position with the VHA. To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements. NOTE: Grandfathering Provision: A Blind Rehabilitation Outpatient Specialist (BROS) employed in VHA on the effective date of the qualification standard (5/14/2019), are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education and certification(s) that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation.
Basic Requirements:
1. Education and Experience: The following education requirement applies to the Blind Rehabilitation Outpatient Specialist (BROS). Please select the option that best describes your education level (must supply transcripts):

Note: Foreign graduates must have proof of a minimum of a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university (or foreign equivalent, as verified through an independent credential evaluation company), with a specialization in blind rehabilitation.
 A. A bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university with a major field of study in blind or vision rehabilitation, or a closely related program in rehabilitation, special education, family and consumer science education, technology, and industrial arts education.
 B. A master’s degree from an accredited college or university with a major field of study in blind or vision rehabilitation, or a closely related program in rehabilitation, special education, family and consumer science education, technology, and industrial arts education.
 C. A bachelor’s or master’s degree from an accredited college or university (without a major field of study as outlined in (1)(a) and (b) above) and obtained a certificate from an accredited college or university in the core curriculum in orientation and mobility, vision rehabilitation therapy, assistive technology for blind and visually impaired individuals, or low vision therapy. This education must have included supervised practice.
 D. Completion of one year of progressively complex experience equivalent to the BRS, GS-9 grade level.
 E. Three (3) years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a doctoral degree in blind rehabilitation or a directly related field.
 F. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. Certification (required at all levels): Applicants must possess at least one active, current, full and unrestricted certification to be eligible for appointment:

BROS who provide services must obtain and maintain one certification at the GS-11 grade level and two certifications at the GS-12 grade level granted by ACVREP as follows:

(a) Orientation and mobility training - Certified Orientation and Mobility Specialists (COMS®).
(b) Communication and daily living therapy - Certified Vision Rehabilitation Therapists (CVRT®).
(c) Low vision therapy - Certified Low Vision Therapists (CLVT®).
(d) Assistive technology - Certified Assistive Technology Instructional Specialist (CATIS®).

Do you possess the required certification(s) for the grade level in which you are applying for?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. English Language Proficiency Requirement: Blind Rehabilitation Outpatient Specialist must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. chapters 73 or 74. See Chapter 2, section D, paragraph 5a. Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Grade Level Determinations: In addition to the basic requirements, the following criteria must be used when determining the appropriate grade assignment of candidates:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. BROS, GS-11 (Entry Level): 
Experience: None beyond the basic requirements
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) for GS-11: In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Knowledge and understanding of highly specialized complex evaluations and diagnostic tests and procedures of blind/vision rehabilitation.
Ability to properly assess a wide variety of patients having multiple disabilities to make recommendations for blind/vision rehabilitation therapeutic interventions.
Skill in development and writing of a blind/vision rehabilitation plan that includes evaluation information from multiple disciplines with observable, measurable goals and that identifies specific outcomes.
Knowledge of teaching methods and learning principles.
Ability to employ interventions, unusual motivational techniques, and coordinate treatment with other professionals to achieve outcomes of the rehabilitation plan.
Skill in recommending appropriate blind/vision rehabilitation prosthetic devices for patients within scope of practice, making adaptations and modifications as required.
Ability to plan, direct, and distribute work assignments to volunteers, assistants, interns, and/or BRSs at lower grade levels and perform assigned mentoring duties for staff, students, and interns.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. BROS, GS-12 (Full Performance Level): 
Experience: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, completion of a minimum of 1 year of experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level is required.

Individuals in this assignment serve in a developmental capacity as the BROS at a medical center, or an outpatient clinic, and in patients' homes and communities. BROS are responsible for decision-making and independent care under the direction of their supervisors and the Blind Rehabilitation National Consultant for their region. Individuals in this assignment serve as a member of a specialty care team. At the GS-11 level, BROS will receive training and oversight from the Blind Rehabilitation National Consultant for their regions.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) for GS-12: In addition to meeting the KSAs at the GS-11 grade level, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Skill to independently develop, plan, and administer complex treatment programs.
Ability to act as a subject matter expert in the blind/vision rehabilitation field, and as consultant, supervisor, and/or mentor in evaluating and treating patients in specialty or program areas.
Ability to coordinate, motivate, and effectively manage staff and/or committee members to include organizing work, setting priorities, and delegating tasks and responsibilities.
Ability to disseminate appropriate information through various media as a consultant or mentor.
Skill in interpersonal relationships in dealing with patients, employees, other team leaders, managers, and other stakeholders.
Ability to identify team group dynamics, objectively observe, and modify behaviors.
Ability to apply decision-making principles to adjust programs on a day-to-day basis, to develop short-term and long-range goals, and to plan for future utilization of resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected