Position Title
MAINTENANCE MECHANIC
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
ID-12826010-AR-25-4194 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 30, 2025 to Thursday, November 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
All on-board National Guard Title 32 Excepted Technicians within the state for which you are applying (Title 32 Permanent and Excepted Indefinite).  Are you a current on-board National Guard Title 32 Excepted Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1, 2, or 3).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer the following question/(s):


1.
Your resume must include start and end dates (MONTH AND YEAR) for each position listed to receive credit for specialized experience.

Examples:

From 2002 to 2004 I was a crew chief. (NO)

From Mar 2002 to Oct 2004 I served as the crew chief on a C-130 where I used testing equipment to troubleshoot malfunctions with systems. I repaired, maintained, serviced, inspected, and modified systems on the aircraft daily in the performance of my job. I use tech orders and manufacturers drawings and diagrams to determine proper maintenance procedures on assigned aircraft. (YES)

Does your resume reflect both month and year?
 Yes
 No


2.
GENERAL EXPERIENCE: Experience or training that has provided the knowledge of trade practices, tools, and related equipment used in the maintenance and repair of grounds, exterior structures, buildings, and related fixtures and utilities.

SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: Experience or training in complex trade practices in the maintenance and repair of facilities and grounds. Experience which required selecting type and amount of materials needed to maintain and repair facilities. Experience using measuring equipment and various portable power tools in work which required close tolerances. Experience or training in performing visual examinations and operational tests to determine the need for, and the performance of, repair work.

To ensure full credit is given for the qualification requirements you will need to be specific with your experience and write it in terms that the Human Resource Specialist can easily understand (please refrain from using acronyms).  Include both military and civilian experience (credit is applied for both your military and civilian jobs, except for overlapping periods).  Please include any MOS/AFSC that you hold/held and the dates they were obtained.

Do you meet these requirements and does your resume reflect the specialized experience listed above?
 Yes
 No


3.
To be eligible for this position, you must currently hold a rank within the pay grades of E-1 through E-7.

Do you currently hold a rank within the pay grades provided?

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙