Position Title
Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist (DRT)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSZ-12811184-26-CMC Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, October 6, 2025 to Tuesday, October 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements. Failure to respond to these questions may result in an ineligible rating. Please choose yes or no for the following questions.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
(Screen Out) Citizenship: Are you a Citizen of the United States? (Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Chapter 3.)
 Yes
 No


2.
(Screen Out) English Language Proficiency: DRTs must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), and 7407(d). Are you proficient in both spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


3.
(Screen Out) Education: Completion of a full-time training course of at least 24 months in duration (or the 2 equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from [other accrediting agencies as recognized by the Department of Education (DOE). Do you meet the education requirements as described above?
 I have completed a full-time training course of at least 24 months in duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from other accrediting agencies as recognized by the Department of Education (DOE).
 I do not possess the education required to qualify for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
(Screen Out) Certification:  All applicants must be certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (ARRT) (R). Advanced ARRT certification is required for assignments that include computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or Mammography (M) duties performed independently, as applicable. Advanced certification indicates that the incumbent can operate independently, and has demonstrated specific clinical competency in the appropriate specialty and taken and passed the designated examination. In modalities that require advanced certification, to support their continued development, technologists who do not possess an advanced certification may be provided on the job training with oversight from a certified radiologic technologist.

Do you meet the certification requirements?
 Yes
 No


5.
GS-08 Grade Determination: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, you must have at least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level that demonstrates the clinical competencies described at that level. Employees at this grade level serve as staff DRTs at the full performance level.

Candidates at this grade level must be qualified to independently provide services in specialized areas of radiologic technology and/or general radiologic technology services with only occasional oversight or direction for highly complex issues.

Do you possess the experience as defined above?
 Yes, I have at least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level
 No, I do not meet the experience requirement


INSTRUCTIONS: KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, AND ABILITIES - This section evaluates your knowledge, skills and abilities to perform the duties of this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Ability to check system for operation and assess acceptable performance based on established guidelines. 
Knowledge of calibration parameters and the ability to make adjustments as needed.
 Knowledge of patient's clinical record, diagnosis, and laboratory results.
 Ability to monitor patient's physiologic changes during the procedure and keep the radiologist informed.
Skill in using tact, diplomacy, and courtesy in dealings with the customer base, patients, staff, family, visitors, and volunteers.
Knowledge of anatomy and physiology, and cross-sectional anatomy, recognizing unusual images, and determining proper positioning to best demonstrate areas of interest.
Do you meet the applicable KSAs described above?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙