Position Title
Legal Administrative Specialist (Litigation Support)
Agency
Executive Office for U.S. Attorneys and the Office of the U.S. Attorneys
Announcement Number
25-WAW-12751145-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 18, 2025 to Friday, August 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center help.usajobs.gov/index.php/What_is_CTAP%3F)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center. https://help.usajobs.gov/index.php/What_is_ICTAP%3F
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
7
9
11
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Justice (DOJ). Your response to this assessment questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making screening decisions. This is a DOJ job application system. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this application. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration.
For the following questions, please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience. You may select only one response for each question. If you feel that your education or experience exceeds all of the descriptions for a particular question, choose the description that is the closest level to the experience or education that you possess. Failure to respond to these questions will result in an ineligible rating.
1. From the descriptions below, select the ONE response that BEST describes the specialized experience and/or education you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform as a GS-7 Legal Administrative Specialist (Litigation Support).

 A. I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-5 level in Federal service. Examples of specialized experience include assisting with organizing basic case information, preparing discovery productions, including scanning and coding documents and creating CDs; assisting attorneys in preparing for court such as preparing basic demonstrative exhibits; assisting in the use of technology to organize digital evidence; and preparing, drafting, and editing a variety of routine legal and trial-related documents.
 B. I have successfully completed one (1) full year of progressively higher-level graduate education (18 semester hours or the number of units my school uses to describe one graduate year of academic study) in related field (e.g., Criminal Justice, Computer Science, Law, Information Technology) leading to a master's degree OR I possess a bachelor's degree with superior academic achievement. Superior academic achievement is as follows: standing in the upper third of your graduating class or major subdivision OR membership in one of the national scholastic honor Societies; OR Grade Point Average. Applicants must have a grade point average of: (a) 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) as recorded on their official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or (b) 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum.
 C. I have a combination of specialized experience as described in A and education as described in B, which when combined equal 100% of the requirements (graduate education is in excess of the first full year).
 D. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
2. Identify the specific experience from your resume or cover letter that validates your response. Also list the name and contact information of someone who can verify your response.

3. From the descriptions below, select the ONE response that BEST describes the specialized experience and/or education you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform as a GS-9 Legal Administrative Specialist (Litigation Support).

 A. I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-7 level in Federal service. Examples of specialized experience include performing routine litigation support tasks necessary to process common electronically stored information and preparing it for review; scanning hard copy documents and making appropriate determinations about equipment, resolution, and format; uploading various files into document review databases; using basic document review databases to perform functions such as coding, tagging, basic searching, sorting, and filtering; performing quality control on loaded files; and creating electronic versions of exhibits for court filings, depositions, hearings, or trials.
 B. I possess one of the following types of education in a related field (e.g., Criminal Justice, Computer Science, Law, Information Technology): a master’s degree or equivalent graduate degree (such as an LL.B. or J.D., if related); OR 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree. Education at the graduate level is from an accredited college or university and demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the duties of the position.
 C. I have a combination of specialized experience as described in A and graduate education as described in B which when combined equal 100% of the requirements (graduate education is in excess of 1 full year).
 D. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
4. Identify the specific experience from your resume or cover letter that validates your response. Also list the name and contact information of someone who can verify your response.

5. From the descriptions below, select the ONE response that BEST describes the specialized experience and/or education you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform as a GS-11 Legal Administrative Specialist (Litigation Support).
 A. I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-9 level in Federal service. Examples of specialized experience include working in a legal environment providing technical advice to litigation teams on legal automation requirements and system capabilities; providing advice, customer support services, and project management services in connection with electronic discovery and evidence, litigation support projects, and litigation technology software applications; assisting attorneys with trial preparation and presentation, including making recommendations on how to proceed with trial presentations; using automated litigation support technology to organize voluminous case information for retrieval, prepare computerized trial presentations, and index digital evidence; diagnosing and resolving litigation support computer system problems; and providing training to case team members relating to their use of litigation technology applications.
 B. I possess one of the following types of education in a related field (e.g., Criminal Justice, Computer Science, Law, Information Technology): a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree; OR 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree; OR LL.M., if related. Education at the graduate level is from an accredited college or university and demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the duties of the position.
 C. I have a combination of specialized experience as described in A and graduate education as described in B which when combined equal 100% of the requirements (graduate education is in excess of the first 2 years).
 D. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
6. Identify the specific experience from your resume or cover letter that validates your response. Also list the name and contact information of someone who can verify your response.

I understand a comprehensive background investigation, including a check of my credit history and a pre-employment drug screening, is required for this position.
7. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this program.

I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

I understand a comprehensive background investigation, including a check of my credit history and a pre-employment drug screening, is required for this position.

 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected