Position Title
LEAD CONTRACT SPECIALIST
Agency
U.S. Special Operations Command (Army)
Announcement Number
MCAD256406832293HQ Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 15, 2025 to Friday, August 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Would you accept a term appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.
1. This position requires the incumbent be able to obtain and maintain a determination of eligibility for a Secret security clearance or access for the duration of employment. A background investigation and credit check are required. Are you willing to undergo pre-employment and recurring investigations to obtain and maintain a Secret clearance as required?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Financial Disclosure Statement OGE Form 450 is used to assist agencies and employees to avoid conflicts between duties and financial interest. This position requires pre-employment financial disclosure and annually thereafter in accordance with DoD Directive 5500-7-R. Are you willing to disclose your financial affiliations prior to employment and annually thereafter to obtain and maintain employment in this position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This is a Term position scheduled to last {insert months and/or years}. A term position may be extended to a maximum of six years depending upon the needs of management. Are you available for term employment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Term employment is subject to a one year trial period. Employees serving a trial period can be removed with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a one year trial period?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 25% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 25% of the time?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Resume Length Pilot Acknowledgement
1. The Job Opportunity Announcement (JOA) states that resumes should be limited to 5 pages. If more than 5 pages are submitted, only the first 5 pages will be reviewed to determine your eligibility/qualifications. (NOTE: You may select either response A or B to acknowledge; this question serves only as a reminder of the notice on the JOA).
 A. I understand that I may submit my resume in any format of my choosing, however, if my submitted resume is over 5 pages, only the first 5 pages will be reviewed to determine eligibility/qualifications.
 B. I acknowledge the statement in response ‘A’.
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Lead Contract Specialist, NH-1102-4, position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1. 1. Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Contract Specialist at the NH-04 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 A. I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) from an accredited educational institution authorized to grant baccalaureate degrees. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 B. I do not meet the education requirements above. However, I am either (A) a current civilian employee in DoD who occupied GS-1102 positions or contracting positions with authority to award or administer contracts above the simplified acquisition threshold in an Executive Department on or before September 30, 2000; OR (B) I am a current military member who occupied a similar occupational specialty to the GS (or equivalent)-1102 on or before September 30, 2000.
 C. I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.
2. Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Lead Contract Specialist at the NH-04 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the NH-3 pay band in the Federal service which prepared you to do the work in this job. Specialized experience is defined as 1) Reviewing contractual agreements for compliance with regulatory guidance. 2) Negotiating contractual terms or conditions to ensure timely execution of acquisition awards. 3) Implementing contractual regulatory guidance for the procurement of goods or services; and 4) Performing pre-award and post-award procurement functions for acquisition programs.
 B. I do not possess any of the described experience above.
3. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected