Position Title
Supervisory Contract Specialist
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLAAvn-12754198-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 1, 2025 to Friday, August 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions and you:
• have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more OR
• retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more?

If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. Please also provide your disability letter which includes the combined service connected disability percentage rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15((SF-15 (PDF file)).  .

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for Schedule A Disability appointments?

If eligible, provide proof of disability with appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

For more information, review https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/individuals-with-disabilities
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. .

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
are entitled to veterans preference?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
2. Do you have a current (or last) performance rating of at least Fully Successful or the equivalent?
 A. Yes. I am a current Federal employee or have been within the previous 52 weeks and my most recent performance rating of record is at or above the Fully Successful or equivalent level.
 B. I am a current Federal employee but have not yet received a Federal performance rating.
 C. I am not a current Federal employee or have not been during the previous 52 weeks, therefore I do not possess a Federal performance rating.
 D. No. My performance rating is below the Fully Successful or equivalent.
3. Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) in the past 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement
Assessment 1
1. The purpose of this next question is to verify that you meet the Basic Contracting requirement for this position. Please select the best answer that fits your situation. FAILURE TO ANSWER THIS QUESTION WILL
MAKE YOU INELIGIBLE.
 A. I have received a Bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited educational institution authorized to grant baccalaureate. Non-DLA serviced applicants must submit transcripts. DLA applicants should ensure transcripts are on file in eOPF.
 B. I am a current civilian employee in DoD or member of the Armed Forces, who occupied a GS-1102 position or contracting officer position with authority to award or administer contracts above the simplified acquisition threshold on or before September 30th, 2000.
 C. I do not possess the required education and/or experience to qualify for this position.
2. This next question will be used to identify whether you meet the applicable Contracting Officer requirement for this position. Please select the best answer that fits your situation. FAILURE TO ANSWER THIS
QUESTION WILL MAKE YOU INELIGIBLE.

 A. I possess at least two years of experience in a contracting position.
 B. I do not possess the required two years of contracting experience mentioned above.
3. From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all of the statements
completely before making your selection.

 A. I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Leading, guiding, and mentoring employees in order to deal with complex problems; Interpreting and applying current Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR), Defense Federal Acquisition Regulations (DFAR) Supplement, and local agency purchasing regulations, policies, and procedures to accomplish the work; Reviewing simplified and formal acquisitions; Creating and maintaining program milestones; and Briefing and providing statuses to senior and mid-level managers on program status, objectives, challenges, and opportunities.
 B. I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.
INSTRUCTIONS: In this part you will respond to questions about your experience as it relates to the position for which you are applying. For each task question, choose the level description that best describes your experience and/or training. Your responses must be fully supported within the text of your resume. Failure to properly identify your experience may result in the lowering of your overall score and/or your disqualification for this position.
4. From the following responses, select the statement that describes the duties you have performed on a regular and reoccurring basis related to research and analysis.

 A. I have conducted research and analysis to determine contract performance in order to negotiate and execute contract actions.
 B. I have advised subordinate employees on how to conduct research and analysis in order to negotiate modifications and execute contract actions.
 C. I have assisted in conducting research and analysis of contract performance in the preparation of contract actions.
 D. None of the above.
5. This position requires the ability to correctly interpret and apply federal laws, rules, regulations, executive orders, and policies. From the following responses, select the statement that most accurately reflects your experience with contracting laws and regulations.

 A. I have researched Federal regulations and policies related to Federal Procurement.
 B. I have advised agency executives and contractors on Federal regulations and policies related to Federal Procurement.
 C. I have experience applying and advising contractors and government officials on Federal regulations and policies related to Federal Procurement.
 D. None of the above.
6. From the following list of Procurement functions, select the statement(s) you have performed as part of your regular duties. (Select all that apply)

 A. Executed contract awards/modifications
 B. Prepared acquisition strategy
 C. Maintained project files
 D. Negotiated prices
 E. Negotiated production lead time
 F. Served as head of a negotiation team
 G. None of the above (If selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
7. From the following responses, select the statement that most accurately reflects your experience in monitoring and reviewing procurement and contracting process improvements.

 A. I routinely review procurement and contracting processes to identify needed improvements.
 B. As a regular part of my job, I review procurement and contracting processes at an agency level to identify needed improvements, recommend and implement changes.
 C. I have reviewed procurement and contracting processes and recommend improvements for consideration.
 D. None of the above.
8. From the following responses, please select the statement that describes your level of experience providing policy guidance.
 A. Routinely provide expert policy advice/interpretation to contracting individuals.
 B. Interpret and Implement policy for the agency.
 C. Write policy and provides information to implement for agency procurement officials.
 D. None of the above.
9. From the following responses, select the statement that describes your experience serving as a contracting officer with unlimited signatory authority at or above 10 million dollars for a significant system or program. (Select all that apply)

 A. I have managed a contract that had a commitment period extending over five (5) years.
 B. I have managed a contract that had substantial impact on the agency’s economic well-being.
 C. I have managed a contract where the final product was a complete supply contract.
 D. I have managed a contract that exceeded 5 million dollars in costs.
 E. None of the above (If selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
10. From the following responses, select the statement that describes your responsibility with policy revisions.
 A. As a regular part of my job, I perform contract reviews against established policy.
 B. As a regular part of my job, I identify policies that require updating and present my recommendations to senior officials.
 C. As a regular part of my job, I implement new processes and procedures when new legislative/regulatory requirements are issued.
 D. None of the above.
11. This position requires a great deal of interpersonal communication skills. From the following responses, please select the statement(s) that reflect your experience with oral communication related to contracting. (Select all that apply)

 A. Conducted meetings with representatives of agencies/contractors in order to exchange information and/or resolve issues
 B. Presented command policy and/or position regarding customer requests (i.e. contract terms, modifications, etc.)
 C. Led complex negotiations with a variety of external customers
 D. Presented briefings and/or presentations on contract administration topics
 E. Presented procurement status to high level officials
 F. None of the above (If selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
12. Select the choice(s) that best describe your communication experience(s). (Select all that apply)

 A. I have communicated orally with Senior Executives and high ranking officials in a variety of ways on a consistent basis to create and maintain a positive and effective working relationship.
 B. I have explained the procurement process and channels of communication to a high level official in either an existing or potential customer organization.
 C. I have independently provided advice to a senior staff member, corporate officer or other high ranking official regarding procurement processes or strategies.
 D. I have prepared and presented briefings, case discussions, or information sessions to customers, peers or management.
 E. I have negotiated successfully with others to reach agreement, settlement, consensus, compliance or resolution to a difficult problem.
 F. None of the above (If selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
13. From the following list, please indicate those to whom you have provided contracting and procurement advice. (Select all that apply)

 A. Senior staff members (Division Director or Higher)
 B. Senior staff members in Program offices (Program Manager or Higher)
 C. Contractors
 D. Staff members in other agencies Program offices
 E. None of the above (If selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
14. Select the response(s) that describe your interpersonal communication skills that you have routinely and successfully applied at work. (Select all that apply)
 A. I have facilitated the resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed in order to meet program objectives.
 B. I have interacted effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments.
 C. I have provided direction, guidance or instruction to support staff or co-workers.
 D. I have imposed consequences and held others accountable to meet program requirements, policies and/or standards.
 E. I have persuaded others to adopt new methods, procedures or techniques in order to improve operations or to meet new standards.
 F. I have diffused confrontational contacts with people who are difficult, hostile or distressed.
 G. None of the above (If selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
15. From the list below, select the response which corresponds to your level of experience supervising and rating government civilian employees:

 A. I have never supervised AND rated a government civilian employee
 B. I have one year or more experience supervising AND rating government civilian employees
 C. I have one year or more experience as a supervisory 1102 series employee supervising AND rating 1102 series government civilian employees.
16. Have you received an honorary or monetary award from your employer (government civilian, military, or private sector) during the last 3 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected