Position Title
Recreation Specialist
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
PEN 25-12779383 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 27, 2025 to Wednesday, September 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience and/or education to qualify for a Supervisory Recreation Specialist - (Community Recreation Department) NF-0188-03 vacancy. Failure to respond to the questionnaire will result in disqualification. All experience must be clearly documented on resume.
1. Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you. (Transcripts must be received if qualifying based on education)
 A. A minimum of a 4-year degree in General Recreation, Outdoor Recreation, Recreation and Parks Leadership, Wild Land Recreation Management, Natural Resources Recreation, Youth Recreation, Public, Urban, or Community Recreation, or Physical Education.
 B. One-year of specialized experience that includes, planning, organizing, coordinating, supervising, or evaluating community, industrial, outdoor, institutional, or other recreational programs.
 C. I possess none of the above.
2. How many years of experience do you have working in a recreational field that includes program planning, coordinating leisure activities, classes, and community special events for individuals and groups of varying demographics, ages and interest?(i.e., comedy shows, holiday events, celebrity appearances, concerts, seasonal celebrations).
 A. I do not have any of the above-mentioned experience.
 B. I have less than one (1) year of experience as described above.
 C. I have between one (1) and two (2) years of experience as described above.
 D. I have between two (2) and three (3) years of experience as described above.
 E. I have more than three (3) years of experience as described above.
3. How many years of experience do you possess in creating, negotiating, implementing, and sustaining partnerships within the local community or military organizations?
 A. I do not have any experience with the above-mentioned duties.
 B. I have less than two (2) years of experience as mentioned above.
 C. I have between two (2) and three (3) years of experience as mentioned above.
 D. I have at least four (4) years of experience as mentioned above.
4. How many years of experience do you possess speaking in front of both small and large groups?
 A. I have no experience with public speaking.
 B. I have less than one (1) year of public speaking.
 C. I have between one (1) and two (2) years of public speaking.
 D. I have between two (2) and four (4) years of public speaking.
 E. I have more than four (4) years of public speaking.
5. How many years of experience do you have working in a Team Lead, or alike, position, where duties included, but not limited to, leading day-to-day operations of multiple programs, assisting with staffing, training, and scheduling?
 A. I have no work experience as a lead or alike.
 B. I have less than one (1) year of experience working in a lead role.
 C. I have between one (1) and three (3) years of experience working in a lead role.
 D. I have more than three (3) years of experience working in a lead role.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected