Position Title
Staff Physical Therapist - EDRP Approved
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZM-12828332-26-KSB Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, November 3, 2025 to Thursday, November 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


4.
Please indicate the highest grade you have held in the Federal government.
I have never held a position in the Federal government.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15


5.
Please indicate dates of the highest grade you have held in the Federal service (if applicable).


6.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position within the Department of Veterans Affairs Health Administration. The following section is used to determine basic requirements for appointment in the federal government and qualification for a Physical Therapist. The full performance level of this vacancy is GS-12.

The actual grade at which an applicant may be selected for this vacancy is in the range of GS-11 to GS-12.


The following KSAs should be reflected within your resume or on a separate document with your application package:
GS-11 Grade Level KSAs: Entry Grade Level - no KSAs required.
GS-12 Grade Level KSAs (Full Performance Level):
Ability to make autonomous clinical decisions in a Direct Access environment. This includes ability to independently evaluate and treat patients who seek physical therapy services.
Skill in performing examinations and evaluations of individuals who have or may develop impairments, activity limitations, and participation restrictions related to conditions of the musculoskeletal, neuromuscular, cardiovascular, pulmonary, and/or integumentary systems while considering the effects attributable to unique psychosocial and environmental factors.
Ability to interpret findings from examination and evaluation, select appropriate test and measures, and integrate findings into the physical therapy plan of care for the full range of patient populations.
Ability to establish a diagnosis within the scope of physical therapy and identify the appropriate rehabilitation intervention, including referral to another provider for further consultation as clinically indicated.
Ability to determine physical therapy prognosis by incorporating examination findings with the patient's preferences in order to set clinically appropriate treatment goals, optimize outcomes and maximize functional independence.
Ability to independently provide clinical oversight of Physical Therapy Assistants as well as students on clinical affiliations who are in Doctoral PT Programs or PTA Programs.


HPTs who have successfully completed or are expected to successfully complete an affiliate sponsored or VA Sponsored training program may be considered based on completing the requirements listed below by the date of appointment. Please ensure you provide all supporting documentation regarding your training program and expected completion. Ensure you provide details in the provided narrative sections of this assessment.


1.
Are you a past, current or upcoming Health Professional Trainee (HPT) who has spent all or part of your clinical training experience at a VA facility, or are you a Health Professional Scholarship Program (HPSP) recipient?
 Yes. Please provide details in the narrative below.
 No


1a.
Please provide the following information regarding your HPT Clinical Training Experience:  
Location of VA Facility
Dates attended.


Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and/or education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience and/or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


2.
Education and experience. The individual must meet at least one of the requirements below. Please make the selection that best describes your education and experience:
 Bachelor's degree in Physical Therapy AND five (5) years of progressively independent experience as a physical therapist, OR
 Master's degree in Physical Therapy AND two (2) years of progressively independent experience as a physical therapist, OR
 Doctorate degree in physical therapy, OR
 I am graduate of a foreign physical therapy program and possess a full unrestricted and current license to practice physical therapy in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia, OR
 I am a VA HPT and am on track to complete this requirement.
 I am a current VA Physical Therapist employee at the GS-11 or GS-12 grade level on or before the effective date of the qualification standards (2/7/2018) to present (without a break in service) and eligible under the grandfathering provision.
 No, I do not meet this requirement. I acknowledge that my application will not receive further consideration.


2a.
Please provide the following information regarding your Education:
School Attended
Date degree earned (If HPT, anticipated date of conferral)
**If your school has changed names, or is no longer in existence, you must provide this information in your application. If your school was accredited by (APTA) at the time of graduation, but is no longer listed on the (APTA) website, you must provide documentation of accreditation with your application packet.


3.
Do you hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to independently practice physical therapy?
 Yes
 No, I meet the basic requirements to be given a temporary appointment as a graduate physical therapy (PT) at the GS-11 grade level.
 I am a VA HPT and am on track to complete this requirement.
 I am a current VA Physical Therapist employee at the GS-11 or GS-12 grade level on or before the effective date of the qualification standards (2/7/2018) to present (without a break in service) and eligible under the grandfathering provision.
 No, I do not meet this requirement. I acknowledge that my application will not receive further consideration.


3a.
Please provide the following information regarding your licensure (active and expired):
License type/level
License Number
State issuing the license
Date of original issuance
Date of expiration


The following questions pertain to your experience at the entry and full-performance grade levels.


4.
I meet the basic requirements as listed for the GS-11 grade level. No experience or education required beyond the basic requirements.
 Yes.
 I am a VA HPT and am on track to complete this requirement.
 No.


5.
I meet the basic AND grade-level requirements for the GS-12 (FPL) grade level. In addition to meeting the basic requirements, candidates must possess one year of experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level and hold a valid unrestricted state license to independently practice physical therapy. FOR REFERENCE Physical Therapists at the GS-11 grade level are responsible for providing assessment and treatment intervention. PTs plan and modify treatment based on a patient's response to intervention and/or change in medical condition. PTs at this level may be given general assignments in any physical therapy program area where advanced specialized knowledge is not required or may serve as the sole PT such as in an outpatient clinic. Licensed PTs may provide oversight and delegate patient care responsibilities to a Physical Therapist Assistant, and/or delegate non-patient care duties to non-licensed staff.
 Yes.
 No.
 I am a current VA Physical Therapist employee at the GS-11 or GS-12 grade level on or before the effective date of the qualification standards (2/7/2018) to present (without a break in service) and eligible under the grandfathering provision.


5a.
(Optional) GS-12 Physical Therapist Experience: one year of experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level (reference grade level experience above) is needed to qualify. Please provide your response as to how you qualify using the format below. You may provide this information for multiple positions, if needed to show how you got one year total of qualifying experience. This may be in addition to your resume, and there is no character limit for your response.

Position Title:
Employer:
Grade Held (if Federal):
Dates Worked (MM/YEAR – MM/YEAR)
Work Schedule: (Full-Time/Part-Time/Intermittent):
Hours Worked Per Week:
Experience:


***Application Package Notification & Important Information***
We appreciate your interest in available positions within the Heart of Texas VA Health Care System. It is our goal to forward every eligible and qualified candidate for consideration.
 
Due to the nature of our systems, it is imperative that your application package be accurate and complete. Therefore, prior to finalizing your application package and submitting for consideration:
* Ensure all documents are appropriately selected, are legible, and have uploaded successfully (we recommend viewing them a second time to ensure no errors have occurred in the process). Missing documents may cause your application package to be ineligible for consideration.
* Ensure that all responses to the assessment questions are accurate and correctly reflect your current situation. Question responses are used in determining if you meet specific eligibility and qualification requirements.
 
Please Note: Until the closing date of the announcement, you can update or edit your package. However, once your application package is submitted and the announcement period closes, we are unable to add documentation or alter your responses. By submitting your package for consideration, you are attesting that your application package is complete and accurate.
 
Some helpful tips:
 
Special Note for Clinical Applications: To complete your application, please use the following link https://vacareers.va.gov/wp-content/uploads/sites/5/Resume.docx to download the standard Clinical Resume Document. This one-page document does not need to be modified and must be uploaded into the two-page restricted 'Resume' document upload field.
 
Your full resume/CV may be uploaded without page limitation into the 'Other' document upload field.
 
 
*Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
 
Job title Grade Level (for federal positions)
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2020)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
 
*Education - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
 
*Veteran's Preference - In order to receive appropriate preference consideration, you must submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veteran's preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (Member Copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-point Veteran's Preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).
 
*Current or former VA or Federal Employees - You must submit a copy of a current and/or highest grade held SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action (not an award SF50)
 
*Proof of current certification, licensure, or registration (if applicable).
 
 
https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/students/transcripts/
 
https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/how-to/account/documents/resume/build/
 
https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/faq/application/documents/resume/what-to-include/



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
I have read and understand the Application Package Notification & Important Information notice, and understand my application may not be forwarded if any necessary information is missing that makes me appear ineligible or not qualified. While some documents may not be identified as required (example: transcripts, copy of licensure, etc), it is highly recommended you submit them with your application to ensure you receive full credit for your education or licensure.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙