Position Title
Assistant Director Resources and Personnel Integration
Agency
Defense Health Agency
Announcement Number
HQKF259833144940SES Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, October 7, 2025 to Tuesday, October 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. San Antonio, TX
 B. Falls Church, VA


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Assistant Director, Resources and Personnel Integration Senior Executive Service position with the Department of Defense. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you meet the basic eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Required Mandatory Technical Qualification (MTQ) #1: I possess demonstrated knowledge of and executive level experience in applying guidelines and business constructs regarding administrative practices and procedures, budget planning, programming, and execution, and business process reengineering. If yes, your resume must show possession of this MTQ.
 Yes
 No


2.
Required Mandatory Technical Qualification (MTQ) #2: I possess extensive in-depth knowledge of federal, legislative and regulatory policies and procedures, at the senior level, that govern the business imperatives, human resources, contracting and logistical systems, and audit processes relative to strategically planning for, developing, acquiring, deploying and maintaining a broad array of administrative and management programs. If yes, your resume must show possession of this MTQ.
 Yes
 No


3.
If you are not a current or former SES Career employee (appointed under Title 5 U.S.C. 3393), or a graduate of an approved SES Candidate Development Program (SESCDP), you must also address each of the Executive Core Qualifications (ECQ) within your resume, not to exceed 2 pages. Please select the response that best describes your application package:
 I have addressed each of the Executive Core Qualification within my 2-page resume.
 I am a current OR former SES Career employee, appointed under Title 5 U.S.C. 3393; therefore, I am not required to provide a response to the Executive Core Qualifications. My application package DOES include a copy of my SES Career appointment SF50, as required.
 I am a graduate of an approved SES Candidate Development Program and am not required to provide a response to the Executive Core Qualifications. My application package DOES include my OPM Certificate of Eligibility, as required.
 My application package does NOT meet the requirements for addressing the Executive Core Qualifications.


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙