Position Title
Recreation Specialist Programmer
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
23-11802152 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, January 13, 2023 to Saturday, January 28, 2023
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Assessment 1
1. Do you have a Bachelor's degree in Recreation, Marketing, Business or related subject area PLUS one year of professional experience and/or equivalent work experience (three years combined) in a recreational field?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. My experience working in recreational activities such as Navy Liberty or DoD equivalent can be described as:

 A. I have experience programming for a Navy Liberty program
 B. I have experience programming for a Navy Recreational facility or DoD equivalent
 C. I have experience programming for a civilian recreational program
 D. I do not have this experience
3. Do you have basic knowledge of software such as Microsoft Office products Word, Excel, Power Point and Internet Explorer?

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. What tools have you used to measure the success of a program?

5. Are you available to work nights/weekends/holidays as necessary for the program?

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Do you have a valid driver license?

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. What experience do you have capturing metrics and evaluating programs for effectiveness of delivery?

 A. I have experience in capturing metrics and evaluating programs for effectiveness in a DoD facility
 B. I have experience in the civilian sector capturing metrics and evaluating programs for effectiveness
 C. I do not have this experience
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected