Position Title
Health Technician (Ophthalmology)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSZ-12747379-25-NAS Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 10, 2025 to Monday, October 6, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a career as a Health Technician (Ophthalmology) with the Veterans Health Administration. The following will determine that you meet the minimum qualifications for this position. Please refer to the qualifications section of the announcement for more information on minimum qualifications. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.

Current VA Health Technicians: Grandfathering Provisions for employees who do not meet all the basic requirements in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it, the following provisions apply:
Such employees may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance (journeyman) level, or changed to lower grade within the occupation, but may not be promoted beyond the journey level or placed in supervisory or managerial positions. 
Health Technicians (Ophthalmology) who were appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed, on a temporary or permanent basis, until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard.
Employees initially grandfathered into this occupation, who subsequently obtain additional education and/or certification that meet all the basic requirements of the qualification standard must maintain the required credentials as a condition of employment in the occupation.
Health Technicians (Ophthalmology) who are converted to title 38 hybrid status under this provision and subsequently leave the occupation lose protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of reentry to the occupation.

Current Federal Employees MUST Submit Appropriate SF-50s As Instructed Within The Announcement.

The following questions will determine your basic eligibility for the Health Technician position to which you are applying.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Citizen: This position requires that applicants be a citizen of the United States. Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with VA Handbook 5005, part II, chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3g.

Do you meet this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Language: Applicants must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with VA Handbook 5005, part II, chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3j.

Do you meet this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Certification: All applicants must be certified as a Certified Ophthalmic Assistant (COA) with the Joint Commission on Allied Health Personnel in Ophthalmology (JCAHPO). The COA certification is JCAHPO's entry-level certification examination for a Health Technician (Ophthalmology).

You Must Include Your Certification Document With Your Application

Do you meet this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. I am requesting consideration under the Grandfathering Provision as a current permanent Health Technician with the Department of Veterans Affairs
 C. No
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. Specialized Experience GS-08: One year of experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level within or outside of the federal government. Examples of specialized experience at the GS-07 grade include, but are not limited to: triages patient phone calls or requests; ensures exam rooms are stocked with adequate supplies; instructs patients on administration of eye drops and post-operative instructions; accurately measures, compares, and evaluates pupillary responses; administers eye drops to dilate pupils; performs basic color vision screening; performs visual field testing (using Amsler grid or automated equipment). Performs basic imaging testing such as corneal topography; external photography; performs basic ocular testing such as pachymetry, tear production with test strips, glare testing, stereo acuity, contrast sensitivity, potential acuity meter, measuring spectacles using both automated and manual lensometry and transposing cylinders. The employee assists the ophthalmologist during minor ophthalmic surgical procedures and is adept at applying sterile technique and infection control procedures. Performs autorefractor to determine spectacle prescription.

In this GS-08 grade position at the Full Performance Level, you will be responsible for obtaining patient physical history, to include chief complaint; reason for visit; pertinent signs/symptoms; past history both ocular and general; family history both ocular and general; social history; and review of medications and allergies, including current ocular prescription and non-prescription medications. Accurately tests visual acuity at distance and near, with and without correction or with and without a pinhole. Measures eyeglass prescription using manual or automated lensometer, recording sphere, cylinder, axis, and prism in both plus and minus cylinder. Performs pupil evaluation recording pupil size, shape, symmetry, reaction to light and accommodation, and any abnormalities, including relative afferent pupillary defect. Performs basic refractometry utilizing an auto refraction or habitual glass prescription in the phoropter. Instills eye medications (i.e., drops or ointments, including anesthetic, dye, dilation, cycloplegic, or antibiotics. Responsible for measuring intraocular pressure of the eye utilizing techniques, including Goldmann applanation tonometry. Performs pachymetry to determine corneal thickness and manual keratometry or automated topography to determine corneal curvature. Performs intra-ocular lens calculations using the IOL Master; including other duties not listed that fall within the scope of treatments.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSA): In addition to the experience above, your CV/Resume must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Ability to perform advanced tonometry and pupil evaluation;
Ability to perform calculations for selection of intraocular lens;
Knowledge of clinic based ophthalmic surgical assisting;
Knowledge of eye anatomy and physiology;
Knowledge of medication effects and proper instillation in the eye;
Knowledge of optics;
Knowledge of proper cleaning and maintenance of clinic equipment.

Resume Must Sufficiently Demonstrate Specialized Experience And KSAs

Do you meet the specialized experience and KSA requirements for this position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected