Position Title
Biomedical Engineer
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBST-12773465-25-JB Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 6, 2025 to Friday, August 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. A current, valid state-issued Driver's License is required for this position. NOTE: We cannot accept photographs, therefore; please do not submit a copy of your license with your application package. If an interview is requested, you will be required to provide a copy of your current, valid state-issued Driver's License.

Do you possess a current and valid state-issued driver's license?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Please provide your driver's license number, issuing state and expiration date. Reminder - Do not include a copy of your license; if referred for interview it may be requested at that time.
4. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Please answer the following questions by selecting the most appropriate response. NOTE: You must submit the required documentation to verify your eligibility as indicated below. Failure to provide the required documents will render you not eligible for consideration. See instructions under the "How to Apply" tab for submitting documentation. Select "Yes" or "No" to the following question(s).
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. English Language: To be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C., chapter 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in the VHA, applicants must be proficient in written and spoken English.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. BASIC REQUIREMENTS:
From the selections below, please choose the response that describes how you meet the basic education and/or experience requirement for this occupational series. Must meet one of the below to meet the basic requirement:

(1) Bachelor's Degree or Higher in Engineering. To be creditable, the curriculum must be from a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET), as a professional engineering curriculum. Examples of acceptable engineering degrees include: Biomedical Engineering, Clinical Engineering, Bioengineering, Biomechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, and Biochemical Engineering. Titles may vary from educational institutions and change over time.
OR
(2) Certification as a Certified Clinical Engineer (CCE) and a bachelor's degree not listed in above.

Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts and/or a copy of your certification as verification of your qualification.

 A. I possess an Bachelor's Degree or Higher in Engineering from a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET), as a professional engineering curriculum. Examples of acceptable engineering degrees include: Biomedical Engineering, Clinical Engineering, Bioengineering, Biomechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, and Biochemical Engineering. Titles may vary from educational institutions and change over time.
 B. I possess certification as a Certified Clinical Engineer (CCE) and a bachelor's degree not listed previously. (CCE certification must be provided with your application to meet this option).
 C. I do not possess the required education or certification to meet the basic education or certification requirement.
3. To meet the requirements of the the GS-7 (Entry Level) Biomedical Engineer position, the applicant must meet the basic requirements as identified above.

Experience: None beyond the basic requirements.

Please select the appropriate answer below that best describes your education and/or certification status as it relates to the basic requirements for this position.

 A. I possess a Bachelor?s Degree in Engineering where the school has at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET), as a professional engineering curriculum. Examples of acceptable engineering degrees include: Biomedical Engineering, Clinical Engineering, Bioengineering, Biomechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, and Biochemical Engineering. Titles may vary from educational institutions and change over time.
 B. I possess a Certification as a Certified Clinical Engineer (CCE) and a bachelor?s degree not listed in item (1) above.
 C. I do not possess a Bachelor's Degree in Engineering and I do not possess a Certification as a Certified Clinical Engineer (CCE) with a bachelors degree.
In addition to meeting the basic requirements, the GS-9 level applicants must have: Experience: At least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower level/grade, which is directly related to the position to be filled. OR Education: Master's degree in Biomedical Engineering, or a related field of study (examples of acceptable engineering degrees include: Biomedical Engineering, Clinical Engineering, Bioengineering, Biomechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, and Biochemical Engineering. Titles may vary from educational institutions and change over time.) provided the applicant's total background demonstrates the KSAs for the GS-09 level assignment. OR Bachelor's degree, as (examples of acceptable engineering degrees include: Biomedical Engineering, Clinical Engineering, Bioengineering, Biomechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, and Biochemical Engineering. Titles may vary from educational institutions and change over time.), PLUS two full years of progressively higher level graduate education in a related field of study, provided the applicant's total background also demonstrates the KSAs for the GS-9 level assignment. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following GS-9 level Biomedical Engineer KSAs: i. Knowledge of the principles, theories, concepts, and practices of the Biomedical Engineering profession. ii. Ability to interpret relevant codes, regulations, guidelines, and standards, and make recommendations to ensure compliance with medical center programs. iii. Ability to understand the operational needs of clinical services in the health care system. iv. Ability to prepare material on current technical topics and trends, for presentation to other technical staff and mid-level hospital management, and the ability to keep abreast of changes in technology.
4. Please select the appropriate answer below that best describes your specialized experience and/or education that qualifies you for the GS-9 Biomedical Engineer position.
 A. I possess at least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level and my resume demonstrates the GS-09 knowledge, skills, and abilities required for the position.
 B. I possess Master's degree in Biomedical Engineering or a related field of study.
 C. I possess a Bachelor's degree in Engineering , plus 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education in a related field of study, and my background demonstrates the KSAs for the GS-9 level assignment.
 D. I do not possess the experience or education to qualify me for the GS-09 level.
In addition to meeting the basic requirements, the GS-11 level applicants must have: Experience: At least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower level, and must fully meet the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities at that level. OR Education: Have a Ph.D., or equivalent doctoral degree in Biomedical Engineering, or a related field of engineering. (Examples of acceptable engineering degrees include: Biomedical Engineering, Clinical Engineering, Bioengineering, Biomechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, and Biochemical Engineering. Titles may vary from educational institutions and change over time.) OR Bachelor's degree in Engineering, as outlined in the example of acceptable degrees above, PLUS three full years of progressively higher level graduate education in a related field of study. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must also demonstrate all of the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: i. Ability to implement and/or sustain an equipment management or biomedical research program that meets The Joint Commission (TJC), National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), or other applicable regulatory requirements.] ii. Ability to develop material for a continuing education program for clinical or research staff, that address the principles and application of medical technology, and/or biomedical theory used in healthcare. iii. Ability to advise [ ] staff on emerging medical [ ] technology[, or research procedures], while keeping abreast of changes in such technology, and utilizing the information to solve biomedical engineering problems. iv. Knowledge of basic project management principles, as applied to the healthcare setting and medical equipment, and information system implementation.
5. Please select the appropriate answer below that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for the GS-11 Biomedical Engineer position.

 A. I possess at least one year of experience equivalent to next lower grade level and my resume demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities require for the position.
 B. I possess a Ph.D., or equivalent doctoral degree in Biomedical Engineering, or a related field of engineering.
 C. I possess a Bachelor's degree in Engineering, as outlined above, PLUS three full years of progressively higher level graduate education in a related field of study.
 D. I do not possess the experience or education to qualify me for the GS-11 level.
In addition to meeting the basic requirements, the GS-12 (Full Performance Level) applicants must have: Experience: Completion of at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower level; OR Education: Completion of a post-doctoral research fellowship in the field of biomedical engineering, and must fully meet the KSAs at that level. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must also demonstrate all of the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: i. Ability to conduct a medical equipment management [or biomedical research program that is compliant with applicable healthcare standards and regulatory agencies.] ii. Ability to develop a curriculum for a continuing education program, that address the safe and effective use of medical technology, and/or research devices. iii. Ability to manage a recall and safety alert program for medical devices, including medical device hazard investigations, to assure compliance with patient safety goals, SMDA, and [TJC] requirements. iv. Ability to conduct capital asset and infrastructure planning for medical equipment spanning initial concept, installation, and effective implementation of complex medical equipment. v. Ability to function as the subject matter expert in the field of biomedical engineering, directly supporting specialized clinical technology, including service, system administration, training, quality assurance, and life-cycle management. vi. Ability to effectively advise clinical and administrative staff on medical technology, including existing and emerging technology, which addresses viability, long-term suitability, compatibility, and/or safety. vii. Knowledge of concepts related to computer based medical systems, networking protocols, and information security as it applies to medical technology within VHA. viii. Skill in communicating and working collaboratively with key stakeholders, including technical and professional staff at various levels of the organization. ix. Ability to apply project management principles to deployment of medical equipment and health information technologies.
6. Please select the appropriate answer below that best describes your experience that qualifies you for the GS-12 Biomedical Engineer position.

 A. I possess at least 1 year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level and fully meet the KSAs at that level, in addition to the experience my resume also demonstrates all of the KSAs at the GS-12 level.
 B. I completed a post-doctoral research fellowship in the field of biomedical engineering, or a related field of engineering, in addition to the experience my resume also demonstrates all of the KSAs at the GS-11 and GS-12 levels.
 C. I do not possess the experience or education to qualify me for the GS-12 level.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected