Position Title
ELECTRICIAN
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERH2612829724DHAS Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, November 4, 2025 to Friday, January 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Enumclaw, WA
 B. Ravensdale, WA


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Electrician position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Electrician duties without more than normal supervision.

 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex tasks of an Electrician such as install, alter, repair, troubleshoot, and test parts of electrical systems such as motors, generators, controllers, interior communication equipment, switchboards, transformers, panels, appliances, intercoms, telephone systems and equipment, and various warning, indicating, monitoring and detection systems (audio and visual). I have the ability to plan and lay out work and complete repairs and installations with little or no technical advice. I have the ability read and follow color codes, schematics, blueprints and wiring diagrams to install and operate electrical equipment such as light switches, circuit breakers, fuses, control circuitry, relays, outlets, and fixtures into an existing system. I have the ability to create one line drawings and develop schematics of existing systems. I have the ability to draw and design complex motor controls, lighting controls and communication networks and install them while adhering to National and Local codes. I have the knowledge required to create preventative maintenance schedules and job plans for new and existing electrical systems and components. I currently possess and maintain a Journeyman Electrician License. I have the ability to provide training to other lower graded electricians and provide oversight for more complex assignments. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of tasks of an Electrician such as install, alter, repair, troubleshoot, and test parts of electrical systems such as motors, generators, controllers, interior communication equipment, switchboards, transformers, panels, appliances, intercoms, telephone systems and equipment, and various warning, indicating, monitoring and detection systems (audio and visual). I have the ability to plan and lay out work and complete repairs and installations with little or no technical advice. I have the ability read and follow color codes, schematics, blueprints, and wiring diagrams to install and operate electrical equipment such as light switches, circuit breakers, fuses, control circuitry, relays, outlets, and fixtures into an existing system. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common tasks of an Electrician such as read wiring diagrams that specify where wiring, cables, and fixtures and controls are installed. I am able to maintain and repair electrical wiring, controls, equipment and fixtures; make repairs such as tightening connections, insulating bare wire, and soldering loose leads to contact points. I am able to use a variety of test equipment such as test light, megger, voltmeter, power meter set, and other electrical meters to locate malfunctions. I have selected and used hand and power tools such as screw drivers, crimpers, wire strippers, pliers, wire cutters and soldering irons. I am able to troubleshoot problems by observation and with simple instruments, such as meggers or voltmeters where the faulty unit is an individual circuit (less than a complete system) and is easily located. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple tasks of an Electrician under close supervision supporting higher level workers performing simple and routine duties such as repairing installed electrical systems.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙