Position Title
Community Recreation Programmer
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12750559 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 15, 2025 to Tuesday, July 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I am willing and able to travel away from my duty location.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. For security clearance purposes, I am or will be 18 years of age or older prior to start of employment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 50 pounds.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. I am willing and able to acquire professional job-related certifications with the time frame specified in the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1

Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Recreation Programmer position at the Community Recreation Center. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  


Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below. 

1.

Please select the option as it relates to your educational and/or specialized experience: 


*Related field includes Outdoor Recreation, Recreation and Parks Leadership, Wild Land Management, Natural Resources Recreation, Youth Recreation, Public, Urban, or Community Recreation, special populations recreation (e.g. senior citizens, institutional, etc.), or Physical Education. 

 A. Four-year degree in Recreation or related field* + 3+ years specialized experience in in programming (organizing, planning and administering various special events and entertainment activities that align with up-to-date trends); Advanced or Expert marketing/promotion skills.
 B. Four-year degree in Recreation or related field* + 1-2 years specialized experience in programming (organizing, planning and administering various special events and entertainment activities that align with up-to-date trends); Advanced or Expert marketing/promotion skills.
 C. No four-year degree but 3+ years specialized experience in programming (organizing, planning and administering various special events and entertainment activities that align with up-to-date trends); Advanced or Expert marketing/promotion skills.
 D. Four-year degree in Recreation or related field* + No professional experience
 E. No four-year degree but 1-2 years specialized experience in programming experience (organizing, planning and administering various special events and entertainment activities that align with up-to-date trends)
 F. No four-year degree and no specialized experience in programming (organizing, planning and administering various special events and entertainment activities that align with up-to-date trends)
 G. Less than 1 year of professional special events planning experience
 H. No special events planning experience
2. What is your level of experience in office procedures and basic computer knowledge (data entry, printing, internet, electronic mail)?
 A. Entry– I can perform basic tasks like opening files, typing, and print.
 B. Intermediate – I can navigate the operating system and use common programs at a basic level (Word, PowerPoint, etc.)
 C. Advanced – I can operate multiple software's, and operate common programs at an advance level without supervision (Excel, Adobe, etc.)
 D. I have no experience operating computers and software.
3. Do you have knowledge of general business principles for financial planning/reporting and of the Department of the Navy budget process method Appropriated Funded (APF) and Non-Appropriated Funded (NAF) funds?
 A. I have knowledge of general business principles for financial planning/reporting and of the Department of the Navy budget process method Appropriated Funded (APF) and Non-Appropriated Funded (NAF) funds.
 B. I have knowledge of general business principles for financial planning/reporting, but not of the Department of the Navy budget process method Appropriated Funded (APF) and Non-Appropriated Funded (NAF) funds.
 C. I do not have knowledge of general business principles for financial planning/reporting but do have knowledge of the Department of the Navy budget process method Appropriated Funded (APF) and Non-Appropriated Funded (NAF) funds.
 D. I do not have knowledge of both general business principles for financial planning/reporting or knowledge of the Department of the Navy budget process method Appropriated Funded (APF) and Non-Appropriated Funded (NAF) funds.
4. Please select the option as it best relates to your ability to resolve program issues and operational requirements with patrons and personnel inside and outside the local instillation and community organizations.
 A. I have 3+ years of experience resolving program issues and operational requirements with patrons and personnel inside and outside the local instillation and community organizations.
 B. I have 1-2 years of experience resolving program issues and operational requirements with patrons and personnel inside and outside the local instillation and community organizations.
 C. I have less than one year of resolving program issues and operational requirements with patrons and personnel inside and outside the local instillation and community organizations.
 D. I do not have experience resolving program issues and operational requirements with patrons and personnel inside and outside the local instillation and community organizations.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. This position requires for applicants to have or be able to obtain and maintain a CPR and First Aid certification within 90-days of being hired. Would you be able to meet these instructions?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected