Position Title
FOOD SERVICE WORKER
Agency
Air Education and Training Command
Announcement Number
25-9UFSY008686 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 10, 2025 to Friday, October 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
1.
This position requires regular contact with children under the age of 18 and a favorable fitness determination to do so. Are you willing to undergo a specific initial background check, investigation, and periodic re-verification check of multiple agency records to obtain and maintain a favorable fitness determination to occupy a position having regular contact with children?
 Yes.
 No.


2.
This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and one every three years thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 Yes.
 No.


3.
The duties of this position meet the criteria for compliance with Federal and Air Force policy. This position is subject to a pre-employment screening, and random testing thereafter, to include testing based on reasonable suspicion and testing due to direct involvement with an on-duty accident. Are you willing to refrain from the use of illegal drugs and submit to a pre-employment drug screening and random testing thereafter to obtain and maintain employment in this position?
 Yes.
 No.


4.
This position requires the incumbent to obtain and maintain current record of immunization. Are you willing and able to submit to immunization screenings, undergo vaccinations including annual influenza vaccinations, and provide evidence of immunizations?
 Yes.
 No.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙