Position Title
Supervisory Criminal Investigator
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OPR-DE(DHA)-12756096-AGJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 17, 2025 to Wednesday, July 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who meets one of the following criteria:
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) Eligible:  You have received notice that you will be displaced from the DHS, or
Displaced DHS employee with a confirmed Reemployment Priority List (RPL) registration: 
You have received notice that you will be displaced from the DHS, or
You have been separated by a reduction in force (RIF) from DHS within the last two years, or
You are fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year from date of separation from DHS due to a Workers Compensation Claim? 
 If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. This question applies to current DHS employees. If you are not a current DHS employee, select No.  If you claim only this eligibility, and you are not a current DHS employee, you will not receive further consideration for this position.   

Are you a current Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who is currently employed with DHS in a permanent competitive service position? DHS includes the following agencies: CBP, ICE, FEMA, FLETC, USCIS, USCG, USSS, etc.). Please visit http://dhsconnect.dhs.gov for a comprehensive list of all DHS agencies. 

Note: To verify your eligibility as a current DHS employee you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting: Tenure: Career or career-conditional (1 or 2) and Position Occupied: Competitive service (1).

If you do not meet any of the categories above, you must answer no to this question.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency? If yes, confirm:
You occupy (or have been separated from) a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. This position requires the ability to operate a Government Owned Vehicle. Do you have a valid, non-restricted driver's license or will you be able to obtain a valid, non-restricted driver's license before the time of appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by CBP. Individuals are required to have physically resided in the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law) for at least three of the last five years, before completing an application for CBP employment.

If you do not meet the residency requirement as stated above and you have been physically located in a foreign location for more than two of the last five years, you may request an exception to determine if you are eligible for a residency wavier by meeting one or more of the following conditions:
Working for the U.S. Government as a federal civilian or as a member of the military
A dependent who was authorized to accompany a federal civilian or member of the military who was working for the U.S. government
Participation in a study abroad program sponsored by a U.S. affiliated college or university
Working as a contractor, intern, consultant or volunteer supporting the U.S. government

Exceptions may be granted to applicants if they can provide complete state-side coverage information required to make a suitability determination. Examples of state-side coverage information include: the state-side address of the company headquarters where the applicant's personnel file is located, the state-side address of the Professor in charge of the applicant's "Study Abroad" program, and/or the state-side addresses of anyone who worked or studied with the applicant while overseas. If selected for a position, you must provide documentation to support a request for an exception.

Do you meet the residency requirement?
 A. Yes, for at least 3 of the last 5 years I physically resided within the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law).
 B. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am a current CBP employee.
 C. No, I do not meet this requirement and am therefore requesting an exception under one of the criteria listed above. I understand that if selected for this position, I will be required to provide supporting documentation for the period of time I have spent outside of the United States.
 D. No, I do not meet this requirement and am not requesting an exception. I understand that since I do not meet CBP’s residency requirement, I cannot be considered for a position with CBP at this time.
4. Are you receiving a civilian retirement annuity from OPM based on retiring from the Federal government? If you select yes and you are selected for this position, your salary will be off-set by the amount of your civilian retirement annuity.

To verify, you must submit a copy of your retirement SF-50 with your application package. It is also recommended to submit a copy of your most recent annuity statement.

Note, this does not apply to military retirement and annuity pay.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
6. All newly appointed, GS-15s are required to complete mandatory leadership training. The Office of Training and Development will schedule eligible managers to attend the training within the first 90 days of appointment. All newly appointed, permanent GS-15s shall attain the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to successfully perform their responsibilities by completing required leadership training in accordance with agency policy.

NOTE: This training may be waived if previously completed.

Do you acknowledge that you will be required to schedule the mandatory training within the first 90-days of your appointment and complete the training in Harpers Ferry, WV unless you have already completed this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a current or former Federal employee? If yes, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your SF-50(s) (Notification of Personnel Action) to support your experience. Also, ensure that your resume contains a detailed description of your federal work experience, including the dates you performed those duties, your hours worked per week, job title, as well as series, grade level(s), and salary (if applicable).
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-15 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes You qualify for the GS-15 grade level if you possess 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, performing duties such as: supervising supervisory and/or non-supervisory criminal investigators, with oversight of complex and sensitive criminal and administrative investigations; providing both technical and administrative supervision, establishing goals and priorities to be accomplished by subordinates; coordinating with other supervisors and peers to establish organizational objectives, goals, priorities, and deadlines to formulate plans to address organizational, programmatic, and workload related changes; evaluating subordinate employees and making decisions regarding routine and non-routine training in support of employee development and training needs; and representing the agency in meetings, conferences, and briefings and liaising with mission partners to further investigative goals and maintain organizational relationships.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
9. This position meets the definition of secondary Law Enforcement Officer retirement coverage under the laws and regulations defined in 5 U.S.C. 8331 Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) and General Provisions for Law Enforcement Officers defined in 5 U.S.C. 8402(d), Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS). The criterion is that knowledge, skill and ability in a position deemed to meet primary Law Enforcement Officer special retirement coverage is a mandatory prerequisite to satisfactorily perform the major duties and responsibilities of this job. The conditions for coverage of a secondary position are contained in 5 C.F.R. § 831.904 CSRS and 5 C.F.R. § 842.803 for FERS. As defined by 5 CFR § 831.902 CSRS and 5 CFR § 842.802 FERS, to be eligible for this secondary administrative law enforcement officer Retirement covered position you must have permanently served in a primary law enforcement officer Retirement System covered position, i.e. Border Patrol Agent, GS-1896, CBP Enforcement Officer, GS-1895, Air Interdiction Agent, GS-1881, Marine Interdiction Agent, GS-1801, Aviation Enforcement Agent, GS-1801, or an equivalent private sector law enforcement position.

Do you meet the requirements for a secondary administrative law enforcement position listed above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that by not meeting this requirement that I will be removed from further consideration.
Assessment 1
1. The Criminal Investigator position requires the successful completion of the following pre-employment requirements:
Polygraph examination
Background investigation
Medical examination
Drug test
If you are not willing to complete these requirements then the agency recommends you exit the online job application and not proceed further.

Are you willing to complete the above pre-employment requirements?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. CBP is committed to a drug-free workplace. This position requires drug testing as part of the pre-employment process and requires random drug testing after you enter on duty. Note: Several states now allow recreational and medicinal use of marijuana. However, CBP does not permit the use of marijuana as it is still an illegal drug per Federal law. By submitting this application, you acknowledge and understand that you must successfully pass a drug test during the pre-employment process and that the Agency will remove you from consideration if you do not successfully pass the drug test. Additionally, should you enter on duty as an employee, you will be required to participate in random drug testing in accordance with the Agency's drug-free workplace policy. Do you wish to continue with your application?
 A. Yes
 B. No
The Anti-Border Corruption Act of 2010 requires all job applicants for law enforcement positions at U.S. Customs & Border Protection to receive a polygraph examination and a background investigation before being offered employment. Please read the following questions and answers carefully!
3. Are you willing to undergo a polygraph examination for this position?

 A. Yes, I am willing to take a polygraph examination
 B. No, I am not willing to take a polygraph examination
 C. Not applicable, I am a current CBP Law Enforcement Officer (i.e., BPA, CBPO, AIA or MIA)
4. Have you taken and FAILED a CBP polygraph examination within the last two years?

 A. No, I have NOT FAILED a CBP polygraph examination within the last two years
 B. Yes, I have failed a CBP polygraph examination within the last two years
PENALTIES FOR INACCURATE OR FALSE STATEMENTS: The U.S. Criminal Code (Title 18, section 1001) provides that knowingly falsifying or concealing a material fact is a felony which may result in fines and/or up to five (5) years imprisonment. In addition, Federal agencies generally fire, do not grant a security clearance to, or disqualify individuals who have materially and deliberately falsified these forms. Such actions remains a part of the permanent record for future placements. Your prospects of placement or security clearance are better if you answer all questions truthfully and completely.
5. Are you willing to undergo a background investigation for this position?

 A. Yes, I am willing to undergo a background investigation for this position
 B. No, I am not willing to undergo a background investigation for this position
FIREARM REQUIREMENT: This position requires that the incumbent meet initial and continuing qualifications in the use of firearms as outlined in the Gun Control Act of 1968, amended by the Lautenberg Amendment of 1996. An applicant whose background includes any of the following will be ineligible for consideration: 1) convicted of a crime punishable by imprisonment exceeding one year; 2) has any outstanding warrants or is a fugitive from justice; 3) unlawful user of or addicted to any controlled substance; 4) adjudicated as a mental defective or has been committed to a mental institution; 5) illegally or unlawfully in the United States; 6) renounced U. S. citizenship; 7) subject to a court-ordered restraining (protection) order from harassing, stalking, or threatening an intimate partner (spouse, former spouse, parent of applicant's child, individual who cohabitates or has cohabitated with the applicant), or child; or 8) convicted under Federal, State, or Tribal Court of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or child.
6. Conviction under Federal, State, or Tribal Court of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or child is disqualifying. An intimate partner means, with respect to a person, the spouse of the person, a former spouse of the person, an individual who is a parent of a child of the person, an individual who cohabitates or has cohabited with the person. Have you ever been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or a child?

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you the subject of any Federal, State, or Tribal court-ordered restraining (protection) order?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Are you the subject of any Federal, State, or Tribal court-ordered restraining (protection) order for domestic abuse, including harassing, stalking, or threatening an intimate partner or a child?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Have you ever been convicted of a felony or crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year?

 A. No, I have never been convicted of a felony or crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year
 B. Yes, I have been convicted of a felony or crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year
10. Have you ever lost your right to possess a firearm for any reason under Federal law?

 A. No, I have never lost my right to possess a firearm
 B. Yes, I have lost my right to possess a firearm but my right has been fully restored under Federal law
 C. Yes, I have lost my right to possess a firearm and my right has NOT been fully restored under Federal law
11. Have you used (including injecting, snorting, inhaling, swallowing, etc.), experimented with, received, purchased, transferred, or distributed marijuana/THC, anabolic steroids, prescription drugs, or inhalants? Drug usage information will be taken into consideration during the background investigation
 A. Never
 B. Yes, and I understand that I will be required to provide detailed information regarding this, and it will be taken into consideration during my background investigation
12. Excluding above - Have you used (including but not limited to injecting, snorting, inhaling, swallowing, etc.), experimented with, received, purchased, transferred, or distributed a Schedule I-V controlled substance? Examples of controlled substances include cocaine or crack cocaine (e.g, rock, freebase, etc.), hallucinogenics (e.g, LSD, PCP, mushrooms, peyote, mescaline, etc.), ketamine (e.g., special K, jet, etc.), narcotics (e.g., opium, heroin, etc.), stimulants (e.g., speed, crystal meth, ecstasy, etc.), Drug usage information will be taken into consideration during the background investigation.
 A. Never
 B. Yes, 0-3 Years Ago
 C. Yes, 3-7 Years Ago
 D. Yes, 7 or more years ago
13. Prior to your 18th birthday did you enter the U.S. illegally and subsequently initiate action to obtain legal status within 24 months after reaching age 18?

 A. Yes, I initiated action to obtain legal status within 24 months after reaching age 18
 B. Yes, I did enter the U.S. illegally but DID NOT initiate action to obtain legal status within 24 months after reaching age 18
 C. Not applicable, I am a U.S. citizen OR I did not enter the U.S. PRIOR to my 18th birthday.
14. After the age of 18, did you ever enter the U.S. illegally, use fraudulent or counterfeit documents to enter the U.S., or intentionally overstay an authorized period of admission to reside, work or attend school in the U.S. without legal immigration status?

 A. No, I did not enter the U.S. illegally, use fraudulent or counterfeit documents to enter the U.S., or intentionally overstay an authorized period of admission to reside, work or attend school in the U.S.
 B. Yes, I did enter the U.S. illegally, use fraudulent or counterfeit documents to enter the U.S., or intentionally overstay an authorized period of admission to reside, work or attend school in the U.S.
 C. Not Applicable, I am a U.S. citizen OR I did not enter the U.S. illegally after my 18th birthday
15. Have you ever been removed or deported from the U.S. after the age of 18?
 A. No, I have never been removed or deported from the U.S. after the age of 18.
 B. Yes, I have been removed or deported from the U.S. after the age of 18
16. Are you currently married to or living with any person(s) illegally residing in the U.S.?
 A. No, I am not currently married to or living with any person(s) illegally residing in the U.S.
 B. Yes, I am currently married to or living with any person o(s) illegally residing in the U.S.
17. Did you knowingly marry an undocumented noncitizen for the sole purpose of that individual obtaining legal immigration status?

 A. No, I did not knowingly marry an undocumented noncitizen for the sole purpose of that individual obtaining legal immigration status
 B. Yes, I did knowingly marry an undocumented noncitizen for the sole purpose of that individual obtaining legal immigration status
18. Did you knowingly marry a U.S. citizen for the sole purpose of obtaining legal immigration status?

 A. No, I did not knowingly marry a U.S. citizen for the sole purpose of obtaining legal immigration status
 B. Yes, I did knowingly marry a U.S. citizen for the sole purpose of obtaining legal immigration status
19. Have you ever intentionally harbored, concealed, transported or employed an undocumented noncitizen(s)?
 A. No, I have never intentionally harbored, concealed, transported or employed an undocumented noncitizen(s)
 B. Yes, I have intentionally harbored, concealed, transported or employed an undocumented noncitizen(s)
20. Have you ever kidnapped or imprisoned an individual against his or her will?

 A. No, I have not kidnapped or imprisoned an individual against his or her will
 B. Yes, I have kidnapped or imprisoned an individual against his or her will
21. Have you ever been convicted of any crime involving identity theft or the fraudulent use of a credit card including buying, selling, manufacturing, stealing or fraudulently using credit cards to obtain something of value?

 A. No, I have never been convicted of any crime involving identity theft or the fraudulent use of a credit card including buying, selling, manufacturing, stealing or fraudulently using credit cards to obtain something of value
 B. Yes, I have been convicted of a crime involving identity theft or the fraudulent use of a credit card including buying, selling, manufacturing, stealing or fraudulently using credit cards to obtain something of value
22. Have you engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, holding facility, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution as defined by 42 U.S.C. 1997?

 A. No, I have not engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, holding facility, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution as defined by 42 U.S.C. 1997
 B. Yes, I have engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, holding facility, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution as defined by 42 U.S.C. 1997
23. Have you been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or where the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse, or have you been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in such activity?

 A. No, I have not been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or where the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse, or been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in such activity
 B. Yes, I have been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or where the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse, or been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in such activity
24. Are you a current law enforcement officer who is currently under investigation for a use-of-force incident?
 A. No, I not a current law enforcement officer currently being investigated for a use-of-force incident.
 B. Yes, I am currently holding a law enforcement position and am currently being investigated for a use-of-force incident.
25. Have you ever been terminated from a law enforcement position because you were found liable and/or guilty in a use-of-force incident?
 A. No, I have not been terminated from a law enforcement position because I was found liable and/or guilty in a use-of-force incident.
 B. Yes, I was terminated from a law enforcement position because I was found liable and/or guilty in a use-of-force incident.
26. Have you ever deliberately viewed, downloaded, purchased, possessed, sold, or distributed child pornography after the age of 18 (defined as obscene images of a child or children under the age of 18)?
 A. No, I have never deliberately viewed, downloaded, purchased, possessed, sold, or distributed child pornography (defined as obscene images of a child or children under the age of 18).
 B. Yes, I have deliberately viewed, downloaded, purchased, possessed, sold, or distributed child pornography (defined as obscene images of a child or children under the age of 18).
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected