Position Title
Information Technology - Project Manager
Agency
Supreme Court of the United States
Announcement Number
SCOTUS-12770763-IT Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, July 25, 2025 to Friday, August 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you have a bachelor's degree?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current employee of the Supreme Court of the United States?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
All applicants are required to submit a cover letter and resume in order to be eligible for consideration. Please note that generic or re-used cover letters will not be accepted; resumes may be in any format.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Is an original cover letter and resume included as part of your application package?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you have a bachelor's degree in Information Technology (or equivalent), and have a minimum of 3 years of experience in the Information Technology field?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you have experience handling proper procedures, policies and deployment of technology systems?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Narrative responses must directly address the subject of the question asked. Comments such as "see resume" will not be accepted.
4. Describe your knowledge, skills and experience you have working with various Information Technology disciplines, including DevOps, various IT Infrastructure components, and Cyber Security frameworks such as NIST RMF. (limit 1,000 characters)
5. Describe your experience in OIT disciplines and the related procedures, policies, and deployment of technology systems. (limit 1,000 characters)
6. Describe your project management experience. (limit 1,000 characters)
7. Describe your experience in tracking and maintaining multi-year project plans and work you have done with budget and procurement officials to ensure proper fiscal year planning. (limit 1,000 characters)
8. Describe your experience developing and executing project plans to include information such as defining objectives, funding, scheduling, and staffing. (limit 1,000 characters)
9. Describe experience you have with different project and task management tools such as  JIRA, PowerBI, ADO/TFS/Kanban, Git/Github, SharePoint and Confluence. (limit 1,000 characters)
10. Describe your working knowledge of security best practices (i.e., TAA). (limit 1,000 characters)
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected