Position Title
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SPECIALIST
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
ID-12810380-AR-4008 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 17, 2025 to Monday, October 27, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
US Citizens.  Are you a US Citizen?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer the following question/(s):


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Your resume must include start and end dates (MONTH AND YEAR) for each position listed to receive credit for specialized experience.

Examples:

From 2002 to 2004 I was a crew chief. (NO)

From Mar 2002 to Oct 2004 I served as the crew chief on a C-130 where I used testing equipment to troubleshoot malfunctions with systems. I repaired, maintained, serviced, inspected, and modified systems on the aircraft daily in the performance of my job. I use tech orders and manufacturers drawings and diagrams to determine proper maintenance procedures on assigned aircraft. (YES)

Does your resume reflect both month and year
 Yes
 No


2.
GENERAL EXPERIENCE: Experience in evaluating, analyzing, developing, managing, or improving communications systems, procedures, and requirements that demonstrated knowledge of current developments and trends in communications concepts and technology.

SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE:  Includes experience, education and training that provided knowledge of communications equipment, systems, services, and transmission media; knowledge of electronic communications concepts, principles, practices, procedures, policies, standards, and operational requirements; application of specialized communications methods and analytical techniques; technical knowledge of the operational and performance characteristics of communications equipment, automated control and network management systems, transmission media, and the relationships among component parts of telecommunications systems; and competencies in the subject matter or business processes associated with the DoD, U.S. Army, or U.S. Air Force telecommunication programs.

To ensure full credit is given for the qualification requirements you will need to be specific with your experience and write it in terms that the Human Resource Specialist can easily understand (please refrain from using acronyms).  Include both military and civilian experience (credit is applied for both your military and civilian jobs, except for overlapping periods).  Please include any MOS/AFSC that you hold/held and the dates they were obtained.

Do you meet these requirements and does your resume reflect the specialized experience listed above?
 Yes
 No


3.
To be eligible for this position, you must currently hold a rank within the pay grades of E-4 through E-7.

Do you currently hold a rank within the pay grades provided?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙