Position Title
X-Ray Technician
Agency
Indian Health Service
Announcement Number
IHS-26-HQ-12814018-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 16, 2025 to Wednesday, January 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a recipient of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (IHCIA) Health Profession Scholarship authorized under Public Law 94-437?
If yes, confirm:
You have completed or will be completing the requirements of the approved health profession program within the established timeframe
Meet all eligibility criteria
Entitled to a one-time priority referral/selection to fulfill their obligation to provide public service
You will be required to submit a copy of your transcripts. If you are pending completion of a health profession degree submit a copy of your transcripts and written proof from the education institution's registrar which provides the date for completing the professional program.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an American Indian/Alaska Native who is enrolled in a federally recognized tribe as defined by the Secretary of Interior? The Indian Health Service gives qualified American Indian/Alaska Natives preference when filling vacancies in accordance with the Indian Preference Act of 1934 (Title 25, USC, Section 472), with approved exceptions.

If eligible, submit a copy of your Bureau of Indian Affairs Form 4432, "Verification of Indian preference for employment in the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Indian Health Service," that has been completed by authorized tribal or BIA Officials. For more information, review the IHS Indian Preference guidelines: http://www.ihs.gov/jobs/permanentDocs/indianpreference.pdf.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


6.
Political, Schedule C, Non-career SES Appointee: In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this vacancy announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.

A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an Assistant position to a top-level Federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)). A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations. A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director, OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 5 location(s).
 A. Chinle, AZ
 B. Inscription House, AZ
 C. Kayenta, AZ
 D. Parker, AZ
 E. Phoenix, AZ
 F. Pinon, AZ
 G. Polacca, AZ
 H. Red Mesa, AZ
 I. Whiteriver, AZ
 J. Towaoc, CO
 K. Fort Hall, ID
 L. Mashpee, MA
 M. Cass Lake, MN
 N. Red Lake, MN
 O. Browning, MT
 P. Crow Agency, MT
 Q. Lame Deer, MT
 R. Lodge Grass, MT
 S. Poplar, MT
 T. Rosebud, MT
 U. Wolf Point, MT
 V. Albuquerque, NM
 W. Bloomfield, NM
 X. Crownpoint, NM
 Y. Dulce, NM
 Z. Gallup, NM
 AA. Mescalero, NM
 AB. Santa Fe, NM
 AC. Shiprock, NM
 AD. Taos, NM
 AE. Tohatchi, NM
 AF. Zuni, NM
 AG. Belcourt, ND
 AH. Fort Yates, ND
 AI. Anadarko, OK
 AJ. Clinton, OK
 AK. El Reno, OK
 AL. Lawton, OK
 AM. Pawnee, OK
 AN. Warm Springs, OR
 AO. Eagle Butte, SD
 AP. Fort Thompson, SD
 AQ. Sisseton, SD
 AR. Wagner, SD
 AS. Toppenish, WA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
6
7


3.
This position is covered by Public Law 101-630, the Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Protection Act (25 United States Code Chapter 34) requiring contact or control over Indian children. Due to this law, the agency must ensure that persons hired for these positions have not been arrested for or charged with certain crimes involving a child. Responding yes to this question can make you ineligible for employment in this position. You will be contacted if additional information is required. Have you ever been arrested for or charged with a crime involving a child?
 Yes
 No


4.
This position is covered by Public Law 101-630, the Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Protection Act (25 United States Code Chapter 34) requiring contact or control over Indian children. Due to this law, the agency must ensure that persons hired for these positions have not been found guilty of or pleaded nolo contendere or guilty to certain crimes against persons or offenses committed against children. Responding yes to this question makes you ineligible for employment in this position. You will be contacted if additional information is required. Have you ever been found guilty of, or entered a plea of nolo contendere (no contest) or guilty to, any felonious offense, or any two or more misdemeanor offenses under federal, state, or tribal law involving crimes of violence; sexual assault, molestation, exploitation, contact or prostitution; or crimes against persons; or offenses committed against children?
 Yes
 No


5.
I certify that (1) my responses to questions one and two are made under penalty of perjury, which is punishable by fine under title 18 of the United States Code, or imprisonment of not more than five years, or both; and (2) I have received notice that a criminal check will be conducted. I understand my right to obtain a copy of any criminal history report made available to the Indian Health Service and my right to challenge the accuracy and completeness of any information contained in the report.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this X-Ray Technician (Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist) position with the Indian Health Service. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
SECTION I. MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS AND FACTORS.


1.
Individual Occupational Requirement
Select the one statement below that best describes how you meet the Individual Occupational Requirement for this position.
 I have successfully completed an educational program that meets or exceeds the standards described in 42 CFR Part 75, and is accredited by an organization recognized by the Department of Education and I am certified as a radiographer in my field as evidenced by my active State or national license which is in good standing.
 I have been employed by the Federal Government in a Radiologic position prior to January 13, 1986 and show evidence of current or fully satisfactory performance or certification of such from a licensed practitioner such as a doctor of medicine, osteopathy, dentistry, podiatry, or chiropractic who prescribes radiologic procedures to others.
 I have been employed by the Federal Government in a Radiologic position after January 13, 1986 and have (a) received training from institutions in a State or foreign jurisdiction that did not accredit training in that particular field at the time of graduation, or (b) practiced in a State or foreign jurisdiction that did not license that particular field or did not allow special eligibility to take a licensure examination for those who did not graduate from an accredited educational program, provided that such persons show evidence of training, experience, and competence.
 I do not meet any of the basic qualification requirements listed above; therefore, I do not qualify for this position.


2.
Minimum Qualification, GS-05, Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist
From the descriptions below, select the response that best describes your experience which demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GS-05. Select only one response and do not leave blank.
 I have 1 year of experience performing routine diagnostic radiographic procedures. My experience included producing digital images of routine views of the body (i.e., chest, joints, feet, hands, long bones of arms and legs) under general supervision of a Radiologist.
 I have successfully completed a full-time training course of at least 24 months' duration in a post-high school radiography program. Training from programs based in hospitals must have been from those hospitals that were accredited at the time of the education or training by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospitals or by the American Osteopathic Association.
 I have successfully completed a 1 year course for medical radiologic technicians in the Armed Forces.
 I have successfully completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with courses in radiography, radiation therapy technology, or other related radiographic studies attained from an accredited college, university, medical school, or post- secondary technical or vocational school.
 I have a combination of experience (described in option A above) and education (as described in option D above) that when combined meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position. To calculate your percentage of experience, divide your total number of months experience by 12 (months). To calculate your percentage of education, divide your undergraduate hours earned by 120 (semester hours or 180 quarter hours).
 I do not have experience, training or education as described above.


3.
Minimum Qualification, GS-06, Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist
From the descriptions below, select the response that best describes your experience which demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GS-06. Select only one response and do not leave blank.
 I have 1 year of specialized experience that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of this position. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-05 level in the Federal service as described in the vacancy announcement. Examples include: Performing basic diagnostic radiology procedures under close supervision, including standard x-rays and routine imaging studies. This experience includes preparing and positioning patients, following physician orders, and ensuring patient safety during procedures. Experience applying fundamental radiation protection practices, operating radiographic equipment, and producing clear images for review by senior technologists or radiologists. Duties include assisting with portable x-rays, maintaining supplies and equipment, and documenting completed exams.
 I do not possess the experience listed above.


4.
Minimum Qualification, GS-07, Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist
From the descriptions below, select the response that best describes your experience which demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GS-07. Select only one response and do not leave blank.
 I have 1 year of specialized experience that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of this position. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-06 level in the Federal service as described in the vacancy announcement. Examples include: Independently performing routine diagnostic radiology procedures, including portable and fluoroscopic examinations, in both inpatient and outpatient settings. This includes selecting technical factors, positioning patients, and ensuring radiation safety standards are applied. Experience providing age-appropriate care across multiple patient populations, maintaining accurate imaging records, and scheduling exams according to priority. Collaborate with physicians and other healthcare staff to ensure timely and accurate imaging support and have made minor equipment adjustments as needed.
 I have completed one full year (18 semester hours) of graduate level education directly related to the work of the position.
 I have a combination of education and experience that when combined fully meet the minimum qualifications for this position. The total percentage equals at least 100 percent to qualify for this GS-07 grade level.
 I do not have the education and/or experience as described in the above statements.


SECTION II. CERTIFICATION OF INFORMATION ACCURACY
As previously explained, your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙