Position Title
Senior Aviation Safety Officer
Agency
National Nuclear Security Administration
Announcement Number
25-ESH-00318-12780892-GOV Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, August 12, 2025 to Monday, August 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND:

--you have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more; OR
--you are retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more?

For more information on eligibility visit: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/veterans/  

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Were you employed overseas as an appropriated funded employee, AND:

--you complete 52 weeks of creditable overseas service as a family member during the time you accompanied a sponsor officially assigned to an overseas area;
--you received a fully successful or better (or equivalent) performance rating;
--you returned to the United States to resume residence less than 3 years ago?

For more information on eligibility visit: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/family-of-overseas-employees/

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current/former federal employee who meets one of the following Merit Promotion eligibilities:

1. Current career/career-conditional federal employee applying for a PROMOTION or TRANSFER to a position with a higher grade/pay band or higher promotion potential than you previously held on a permanent basis?
2. Former career/career-conditional federal employee with "Status" applying for REINSTATEMENT to a position with a higher grade/pay band or higher promotion potential than you previously held on a permanent basis?

Note: also select "Yes" if applying for a change-to-lower grade (CTLG) to a position with higher promotion potential than you previously held on a permanent basis.

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a SURPLUS or DISPLACED federal employee (e.g., Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP))?

If yes, confirm:

--you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;
--you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated;
--you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
--your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or equivalent.

For more information on eligibility visit:  https://www.usajobs.gov/help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/federal-employees/career-transition/

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation)  AND:

--you worked in a term or temporary job (time-limited) under a competitive appointment;
--you served under 1 or more appointments for a period totaling more than 24 months, without a break in service of 2 or more years;
--you performed at an acceptable level during each period of service; AND
--if you are a former employee, you have been separated no more than 2 years since the most recent date of separation; and
--you did not leave your job due to misconduct or performance?

For more information on eligibility visit: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/federal-employees/land-management/

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you the spouse of:

--a member of the armed forces serving on active duty;
--a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR
--a service member who was killed while performing active duty (un-remarried widow or widower)?

For more information on eligibility visit: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/military-spouses/

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Are you a military spouse or a veteran caregiver?
 A. Yes, I am a military spouse or a veteran caregiver.
 B. No, I am not a military spouse or veteran caregiver.
9. Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months?

-OR-

Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and are requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student or other experience related to this position (you must provide supporting documentation?

-OR-

Are you a current or former Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years?

For more information on eligibility visit: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/peace-corps/

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10.
Are you a current/former federal employee who meets one of the following non-competitive eligibilities:

1. Current career/career-conditional federal employee applying for REASSIGNMENT, CHANGE-TO-LOWER GRADE, REPROMOTION, or TRANSFER, and you currently or previously held a position with the same grade/pay band or higher and the same or higher promotion potential on a permanent basis?
2. Former career/career-conditional federal employee with "Status", applying for REINSTATEMENT, and you previously held a position with the same grade/pay band or higher and the same or higher promotion potential on a permanent basis?
3. Current Excepted Service employee at an agency that has a valid INTERCHANGE agreement with the Office of Personnel Management (OPM)?
4. Current or former federal employee with the Foreign Service, Postal Career Service, Postal Rate Commission Employee, Government Accountability Office (GAO), Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts or other federal agency for which you gained eligibility to apply for career/career-conditional positions?

For more information on eligibility visit: https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=Types-of-Appointments

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Do you have an intellectual disability, severe physical disability, or psychiatric disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?

For more information on eligibility visit: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/individuals-with-disabilities/

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND:

--you served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military; OR
--you are entitled to veterans' preference?

Note: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour or claiming "derived preference" you may also meet the eligibility criteria.

For more information on eligibility visit: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/veterans/

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Are you currently on Administrative Leave?
 A. Yes, I am on Administrative Leave.
 B. No, I am not on Administrative Leave.
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Livermore, CA
 B. Washington, DC
 C. Germantown, MD
 D. Kansas City, MO
 E. Las Vegas, NV
 F. Albuquerque, NM
 G. Los Alamos, NM
 H. Aiken, SC
 I. Oak Ridge, TN
 J. Amarillo, TX
2. Do any of your relatives work for the agency to which you are applying? If so, please list any applicable names below. Please enter N/A in the text box, if not Applicable. (Include: father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, and half sister).
3. I understand that the responses in this questionnaire must be fully supported in my online resume. I further understand that my resume must provide detailed descriptions and/or examples of my knowledge and competencies as required in the vacancy announcement, and that my failure to do so may result in my being rated "ineligible" or "not qualified" for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
WARNING! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from employment consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications.
4. I have read this Vacancy Announcement thoroughly and understand that supplemental documentation may be required. I further understand that I will not be considered if my supplemental documentation is not received in the Servicing Personnel Office by the closing date of the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I declare under penalty of perjury, that all statements contained in this application and any accompanying documents are true and correct, with full knowledge that all statements made in this application are subject to investigation and that any false or dishonest answer to any question may be grounds for disqualification and loss of consideration.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you currently serving or have you served under a Political Appointment in the Federal Government within the last five (5) years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Senior Aviation Safety Officer position with the Department of Energy/National Nuclear Security Administration, Office of Environment, Safety and Health, NA-ESH.
1. NQ-04: To meet the qualifications requirements for NQ-04 level (GS-15), select the option that best describes your background and experience:
 A. I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the NN-04/NQ-03 pay band level or the GS-14 level as described in the vacancy announcement under specialized experience requirements.
 B. I do not meet the specialized experience requirement described in the vacancy announcement.
2. Identified and addressed a critical aviation safety issue. Select the statement that best describes your experience:
 A. I proactively identified a critical issue that others overlooked, led a safety response team, coordinated with regulatory bodies, and implemented long-term corrective measures that enhanced organizational safety protocols.
 B. I identified a significant safety concern, initiated corrective action, documented the situation, and participated in a debrief or lessons learned.
 C. I recognized a safety issue, reported it through proper channels, and followed up to ensure it was resolved.
 D. I once noticed a minor issue but didn’t report it formally. I assumed it wasn’t serious.
 E. I haven’t identified a critical safety issue. I rely on others to report concerns.
3. Maintained knowledge of FAA/DOE aviation safety regulations. Select the statement that best describes your experience:
 A. I maintain certifications, engage with professional aviation organizations, participate in working groups, and am viewed as a go-to resource for interpreting and applying regulatory changes.
 B. I proactively seek updates, attend webinars or workshops, and share relevant changes with my team.
 C. I follow FAA/DOE updates and newsletters regularly and attend training when offered.
 D. I occasionally review updates when someone else points them out or during required training.
 E. I don’t actively monitor changes in aviation regulations.
4. Ensured compliance with multiple aviation regulatory requirements. Select the statement that best describes your experience:
 A. I have not been responsible for ensuring compliance with multiple aviation regulations.
 B. I encountered overlapping requirements but relied on others to resolve them.
 C. I reviewed and applied FAA and DOE rules to routine operations to ensure compliance.
 D. I managed operations requiring compliance with FAA, DOE, and contract-specific standards.
 E. I resolved conflicting regulatory requirements and created a compliance framework now used by others.
5. Communicated complex aviation safety data to a non-technical audience. Select the statement that best describes your experience:
 A. I have tried to explain aviation safety data, but my explanations were unclear and not well understood.
 B. I simplify technical language and use visuals or analogies to help non-technical audiences understand safety data.
 C. I frequently tailor aviation safety information for different audiences and check for understanding.
 D. I develop custom presentations and materials that improve safety awareness and support decision-making across diverse non-technical audiences.
 E. None of the above.
6. Used written communication to resolve a safety issue. Select any statement that best describes your experience:
 A. I rely on verbal communication and have not used written communication to resolve safety issues.
 B. I have written emails or memos after an issue occurred but didn’t directly contribute to the resolution.
 C. I documented a safety issue in a written report that was used to take corrective action.
 D. I authored a well-supported safety report that resulted in improvements to processes or protocols.
 E. I developed comprehensive safety documentation that influenced leadership decisions and improved long-term safety practices.
 F. None of the above.
7. Ensured clarity and accuracy when drafting reports or safety reviews. Select the statement that best describes your approach:
 A. I draft reports without reviewing them in detail and assume the content is clear.
 B. I proofread briefly and may ask for input but do not regularly revise or verify content.
 C. I review my drafts, verify data, and use formatting to improve readability.
 D. I use a structured process including fact-checking and peer review to ensure clarity.
 E. I apply plain language principles, verify technical accuracy, and tailor reports to the target audience.
 F. None of the above.
8. Evaluated aviation programs or safety reviews using tools or methods. Select the statement that best describes your experience:
 A. I have not evaluated aviation programs or safety reviews.
 B. I participated in reviews but did not lead or analyze the results.
 C. I conducted evaluations using standard tools and submitted findings.
 D. I used data-driven tools to perform in-depth evaluations that led to improvements.
 E. I designed a custom evaluation process that enhanced performance and reduced risk
9. Oversight efforts prevented issues or improved operations. Select the statement that best describes your experience:
 A. I have not had a role in oversight that influenced operations.
 B. I raised a concern but did not follow through on the outcome.
 C. My routine oversight helped correct a developing issue.
 D. My oversight identified trends, and I led corrective actions.
 E. I led a strategic oversight initiative that significantly improved performance and compliance.
10. Prioritized areas for evaluation and improvement. Select any statement that best describes your experience:
 A. I wait for direction from others before determining evaluation priorities.
 B. I use checklists or predetermined schedules without deeper risk consideration.
 C. I prioritize areas based on incidents or known weaknesses.
 D. I use data analysis and stakeholder input to prioritize evaluations.
 E. I created a risk-based prioritization framework that guides ongoing evaluations.
 F. None of the above.
11. Interpreted aviation regulations for others. Select the statement that best describes your experience:
 A. I do not interpret regulations and usually direct others to the source.
 B. I attempt to interpret regulations but am not confident in the outcomes.
 C. I clarify regulations by referencing applicable policies and providing guidance.
 D. I interpret and explain complex rules and help teams adjust operations accordingly.
 E. I provide expert regulatory guidance, lead discussions on interpretation, and am a resource for others.
 F. None of the above.
12. Addressed conflicts between multiple regulatory frameworks (e.g., DOE vs. FAA). Select any statement that best describes your experience:
 A. I avoid resolving regulatory conflicts and defer decisions to others.
 B. I follow the guidance I’m most familiar with, even if it’s not fully applicable.
 C. I consult both sets of regulations and document my interpretation.
 D. I analyze conflicts, consult stakeholders, and propose compliant solutions.
 E. I resolve high-stakes regulatory conflicts and provide risk-informed, compliant strategies across agencies.
 F. None of the above.
13. Contributed to policy or guidance development. Select the statement that best describes your experience:
 A. I have not contributed to policy or guidance documents.
 B. I’ve offered limited feedback on draft documents created by others.
 C. I helped revise existing policies based on operational needs.
 D. I led the development of policy documents adopted within my office or agency.
 E. I authored and implemented cross-agency guidance that set standards and supported mission objectives.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected