Position Title
SUPERVISORY HUMAN RESOURCES SPECIALIST (HRD)
Agency
Air Force Elements, U.S. Transportation Command
Announcement Number
USTC-25-12795000-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 8, 2025 to Sunday, September 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions and you:
• have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more OR
• retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more?

If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. Please also provide your disability letter which includes the combined service connected disability percentage rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15((SF-15 (PDF file)).  .

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. .

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
are entitled to veterans preference?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes your level of experience. To be creditable, specialized experience must be at the next lower grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. Creditable specialized experience includes:

 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade-level (GS-12) in the federal service which is in or directly related to the line of work of the position. Qualifying specialized experience would include: developing goals and objectives that integrate organization employee development and training; advising and providing counsel to employees regarding policies, procedures, and directives of management; conducting studies to improve training and professional development programs and/or influence policy changes; and providing strategic and technical guidance and seasoned consultative training and professional development advisory services relating to the effective use of Human Resource Management (HRM)
 B. I do not possess the required experience to qualify for this position.
2. This position requires expert level knowledge of areas of Human Resources and training principles. I have provided advice on the following (select all that apply):

 A. Human Resource development
 B. HR training principles
 C. Military education training programs
 D. Civilian education training programs
 E. Federal regulations regarding military and civilian personnel issues
 F. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response).
3. I have developed goals and objectives that integrate organization employee development and training.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I have experience with each of the following (select all that apply):

 A. Coordinate with other organization managers and customers
 B. Reviews organization mission, functions, and manning
 C. Provide advice to supervisor of significant issues
 D. Establish metrics and analysis systems
 E. Assess and revise policies and procedures
 F. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response).
5. True or False: I have established policies and procedures for accomplishment of training and professional development.

 A. I provide strategic, authoritative technical guidance and expert level consultative advisory services on a wide-range of HRM programs to employees and management.
 B. False
6. From the following responses, which have you consulted with and advised on? (select all that apply):

 A. Counsel employees regarding policies, procedures, and directives of management
 B. Select or recommend selection of candidates
 C. Develops, modifies, and/or interprets performance standards
 D. Explain performance expectations to employees
 E. Appraises subordinate workers performance ensuring consistency and equity in rating techniques
 F. Initiate actions to correct performance or conduct problems
 G. Identify employee developmental needs
 H. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response).
7. I have promoted an environment in which employees are empowered to participate in and contribute to effective mission accomplishment.

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience improving training and professional development.

 A. I routinely conduct, lead, and/or participate in studies to improve training and professional development programs and/or influence policy changes for the command that typically involve long-range and highly complex.
 B. I have assisted others in conducting, leading, and/or participating in studies to improve training and professional development programs and/or influence policy changes for the command that typically involve long-range and highly complex.
 C. I have had training in areas concerning improving training and professional development.
 D. I do not have experience improving training and professional development.
9. This position also requires experience planning, organizing, and managing the training processes within the command and subordinate commands. Please select the items on which you have provided advice to senior personnel, supervisors or managers (select all that apply):

 A. Management of administrative policies associated with training and education
 B. Develop staff policy governing a training and force development program
 C. Develop and validate course management documents
 D. Develop, implement, and monitor utilization of resources
 E. Write and publish training directives, regulations, annual training guidance
 F. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response).
10. I have developed, monitored, and analyzed applicable statistical data to track operating programs, evaluate their effectiveness and applicability to strategic goals, and plan improvements.

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. From the following responses, please select the statements that best describe your experience communicating with other personnel (select all that apply):

 A. Resolve conflicts through persuasive discussions in one-on-one sessions, meetings, or work groups
 B. Assess customer satisfaction, explain organization policy and procedures, and resolve problems that arise
 C. Identify the need for special projects and initiates milestones and goals.
 D. Evaluate reports by analyzing facts and performing appropriate research and prepares detailed responses
 E. Research and determine or recommend appropriate actions or interpretation of issues that impact organization, installation, command, or agency
 F. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response).
12. True of False: I have prepared, conducted, lead, and attended conferences and discussion, or serves on panels, boards, work groups, and committees.

 A. True
 B. False
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected