Position Title
Supervisory Program Analyst
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBZY-12757123-25-EEP Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 15, 2025 to Monday, July 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; AND, 
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Atlanta, GA
 B. Fort Riley, KS
 C. Topeka, KS
 D. Canandaigua, NY
 E. Hot Springs, SD
 F. Waco, TX
 G. Location Negotiable After Selection, United States
2. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
--INSTRUCTION 1:
Current Federal Employees Critical Note: Please provide your most recent SF-50 and your latest Within Grade Increase or Promotion SF-50 as well. The most recent SF-50 allows us to verify your current status, appointment, agency and/or duty station to confirm your Eligibility to Apply; The latest WIGI or Promotion SF-50 allows us to verify Time in Grade (TIG).  Without these, we are unable to verify these requirements and you could be deemed unqualified for not meeting Area Of Consideration, Time In Grade or not providing the proper documentation for us to do so.

ALL APPLICANTS Critical Note: Evidence of specialized experience must be supported by detailed documentation of duties performed in positions held on your resume. You must provide work experience information such as hours per week, salary, and starting/ending dates of employment (month and year format) to establish you have at least 52 weeks one (1) full year of Specialized Experience at or comparable to the required grade level. Failure to provide the required information on your resume to accurately assess your experience may result in being deemed unqualified for this position. Information on building federal resumes can be found at: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/faq/application/documents/resume/what-to-include/
 
Please choose the answers below that best describe your employment and experience.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1.

GS-11 Specialized Experience: Do you possess at least one (1) full year of specialized experience, which equips you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the Supervisory Program Analyst, GS-11 position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. To be creditable, this specialized experience must have been equivalent to the grade 09 level in Federal service to qualify at the grade 11.
Examples of specialized experience include:

1) Ability to coordinate the preparation and submission of recurring monthly, quarterly, and annual reports, management briefings, summaries, and a wide range of non-recurring reports. 
2) Advanced knowledge of examining vouchers, invoices, claims, and other requests for payment for goods and services provided to or by the Government for Beneficiary Travel and responsible for the proper processing and resolution of claims.
3) Redistribution and re-balancing of workloads is necessary due to fluctuating workloads and deadlines.
4) Incumbent continually evaluates internal processes and identifies deficiencies, recommending system resolutions and improvements. 
5) Sets performance standards and prepares formal evaluations of each employee's performance. 
6) Ensure adherence to collective bargaining agreements and federal, VA, and EEO regulations.
7) Conducts informal training and provides cross-training

GS-11: Substitution of Education for Experience (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED): Do you possess a PhD. or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work.
OR
GS-11: Combination of Education and Experience (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED): Do you possess combinations of successfully completed graduate education and specialized experience directly related to the work of the Supervisor Program Analyst position, which may be used to meet the experience requirements for GS-11 position?



Note: Evidence of specialized experience must be supported by detailed documentation of duties performed in positions held on your resume. You must provide work experience information such as hours per week, salary, and starting/ending dates of employment (month and year format) to establish you have one (1) full year of Specialized Experience at or comparable to the required grade level.

 A. Yes
 B. No
2.

According to the presidential memorandum signed on January 20th, 2025 by President Trump, all federal agencies are required to return to in-person work, see link below. Do you acknowledge the Presidential return to office mandate for Federal employees?

 

https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/return-to-in-person-work/

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected