Position Title
Supervisory Security Specialist (Access)
Agency
Federal Emergency Management Agency
Announcement Number
FEMA-JD-12795886-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 8, 2025 to Wednesday, September 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)

Are you a current or former FEMA Stafford Act employee eligible under the Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)?

Current and former FEMA Stafford Act employees who can document 64 or more hours of paid time, per pay period, with no breaks in service* for 78 or more consecutive pay periods since August 1, 2014, are eligible to be considered for this Merit Promotion Job Opportunity Announcement. (*Note: A "break in service" is defined as 3 or more days in non-pay status, except as allowed under 5 CFR § 315.201(b)(3)(ii) for special circumstances such as military deployment, etc.).

To verify eligibility, you must submit: 
"Notice of DRRA Eligibility" provided by OCHCO.  If you believe you're eligible, but have not received your notice, please reach out to the HR Specialist listed in the announcement.
Your FEMA SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your appointment in the excepted service under the Stafford Act.  We recommend attaching a SF-50 which indicates your highest grade and step.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Current FEMA Employee

Are you a current FEMA employee who currently holds OR has previously held a permanent (not time limited) position in the competitive service?

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your permanent competitive status.  Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions.  You may need to submit more than one SF-50.  Your SF-50 must reflect:
Block 24 - Tenure:  1 - Permanent (career) or 2 - Conditional: AND
Block 34 - Position Occupied:  1 - Competitive Service
If you previously held a career or career conditional appointment, you must provide your current SF-50 and your SF-50 which shows competitive status eligibility.
Please do not submit an award SF-50, as it might not indicate your grade level and step.  
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. FEMA Employees Only Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)
Are you a current or former FEMA employee who is considered displaced or surplus (you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction in Force)?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, your most recent performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. How did you hear about this Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) job opportunity?
 A. USAJOBS
 B. FEMA's Social Media (Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Online Job board (Indeed, Zip Recruiter, etc.)
 D. FEMA.gov Careers Website
 E. FEMA Virtual Hiring Event
 F. FEMA On-Site Hiring Event
 G. College/University/Alumni Organization
 H. FEMA Employee Referral
 I. Other
2. Are you a retiree receiving a federal annuity (either military or civilian)? Or have you accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years? (Select all that apply.)
 A. Yes, I'm receiving a military annuity.
 B. Yes, I'm receiving a civilian annuity.
 C. Yes, I've received a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
 D. No, I am not receiving a federal annuity and have not accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
3. Are you a current FEMA employee?
 A. I'm a current FEMA Local Hire Employee
 B. I'm a current FEMA Reservist Employee
 C. I'm a current FEMA CORE Employee
 D. I'm a current FEMA PFT Employee
 E. I'm a current FEMA Senior Executive Service Employee
 F. I'm not a current FEMA Employee
4. Are you currently serving, or have served within the last five years, as a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) employee in the Executive Branch?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Please provide the following information regarding your political appointment(s): 1. Official Title of Position; 2. Type of Appointment (i.e. Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career SES); 3. Name of Agency; 4. Date Position began; and 5. Date Position ended. (NOTE: If you have never held a political appointment, please enter N/A.)
6. Within the past five years, have you received a buyout or payment through the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment Authority (VSIP) when separating from a federal position?
 A. No
 B. Yes, and I understand candidates who are reemployed with the federal government within five years after receiving a buyout or payment under VSIP are required to repay the entire amount of the incentive prior to their onboarding date.
7. Did you elect to voluntarily resign or retire through the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) or Workforce Transition Program (WTP)
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?

Select "Not Applicable" if this question does not apply to you.
 A. Yes
 B. No, but I have an exemption
 C. I am a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, and have NOT registered with the Selective Service System and do NOT have an exemption.
 D. Not Applicable
2. All FEMA employees are subject to 24-hour on-call in the event of an emergency and all Federal employees may be subject to emergency deployment. In the event of an emergency deployment, travel requirements may be extensive in nature (weeks to months), with little advance notice, and may require relocation to emergency sites, some of which are quite austere. The length of deployment may last anywhere from days to months, depending upon the nature of the emergency or disaster.

Every FEMA employee is considered an emergency manager and each employee has regular and recurring emergency management responsibilities, although not every position requires routine deployment to disaster sites. Your emergency management duties may vary depending on the needs of the Agency, your particular skills, and certain personal circumstances. All positions may require irregular work hours, work at locations other than the official duty station, and may include duties other than those specified in the employee's official position description.

Are you able to meet this commitment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I understand I am subject to completion of a pre-employment drug test (including marijuana). A tentative offer of employment will be rescinded if you fail to report to the drug test appointment or fail the test. You will be subject to random testing.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. In order to be hired for this position, applicants must undergo and successfully pass a Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) investigation. This may include a review of financial issues, such as delinquency, child support and/or tax obligations, as well as certain criminal offenses and illegal use of or possession of drugs.

Are you willing to undergo a background investigation?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Your responses to the questions below will be used in the evaluation of your qualifications for this position. Your resume and application materials must support the level of experience and/or education you claim in this questionnaire. If after a complete review of your application package, a determination is made that you overstated your qualifications, you may be rated ineligible for this position.
1. Grade 12: Do you have one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the GS-11 level, as described in the vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Please indicate where and when you obtained each of the specialized experience requirements listed in the Qualifications section of this Job Opportunity Announcement. Include in your response: (1) the area of specialized experience; (2) the place of employment; and, (3) the specific dates of employment the experience was gained in MM/DD/YYYY - MM/DD/YYYY format. Your response must be supported by your resume.

Example: Experience in developing and delivering presentations and training; ABC Company; 10/01/2016 - 05/15/2018.
3. Have you resolved information security problems in a classified national security environment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Select the best response that describes your experience performing access control functions for a facility?
 A. Badging operations
 B. Fingerprint operations
 C. NCIC checks
 D. None of the above.
5. Select the best response that describes your experience using documents or reports that you have reviewed, developed, or pulled for applicant background verification.
 A. Fingerprint approval lists
 B. NCIC
 C. ISMS
 D. PIPS or DISS or equivalent
 E. None of the above.
6. Select the best response that describes your experience using Microsoft Office product(s) you have used independently to create professional products.
 A. Word
 B. Excel
 C. Access
 D. Publisher
 E. Power Point
 F. Project
 G. Outlook
 H. None of the above
7. Do you have experience providing security-related information to employees and/or contractors?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Select the best response that describes your experience creating written materials as part of your job.
 A. I have written material for briefings, meetings, or conferences.
 B. I have drafted reports, memoranda, and/or correspondence for signature by higher-level officials.
 C. I have written correspondence.
 D. I have written products to explain policies or programs.
 E. I have written products to explain complex and/or controversial policies or programs.
 F. I have written policy and/or procedural materials for dissemination to satellite offices or units in an organization.
 G. I have issued position papers or summary reports on organizational data.
 H. None of the above.
9. Select the best response that describes your experience using oral communication as part of your job.
 A. I have experience serving as a point of contact on procedural matters.
 B. I have experience responding to inquiries or request for information.
 C. I have experience explaining non-technical information.
 D. I have experience contacting others to obtain information.
 E. I have experience presenting briefings, recommendations, report findings, or responses in a public venue.
 F. None of the above.
10. Select the best response that describes your experience representing your organization.
 A. I have assisted in representing my organization in individual interactions with prospective employees who wanted to learn about the organization.
 B. I have represented my organization to small groups of existing or potential customers who are affected by my organization’s mission.
 C. I have assisted in representing my organization to large groups of customers or the public when presenting information about products or services.
 D. I have assisted in representing my organization to large groups of customers or the public when dealing with conflicts or problems related to my organization’s products or services.
 E. None of the above.
11. Select the best response that describes your experience providing customer service.
 A. I have answered questions regarding standard procedures.
 B. I have verified documented customer requirements.
 C. I have identified customer requirements.
 D. I have identified possible technical challenges.
 E. I have discussed approaches to address customer service requirements.
 F. I have enforced compliance with policies or procedures.
 G. I have provided feedback on customer documentation.
 H. I have referred difficult or uncooperative customers to a supervisor or manager.
 I. I have responded to difficult or uncooperative customers (or had difficult or uncooperative customers referred to me.
 J. None of the above.
12. Select the best response that describes your experience utilizing interpersonal communication to respond to others.
 A. I have dealt with individuals who were difficult, hostile, or distressed.
 B. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, or alternative viewpoints.
 C. I have guided individuals (subordinates, peers, superiors) or groups toward task accomplishment.
 D. I have negotiated with others to reach agreement or consensus.
 E. None of the above.
13. Select the best response that describes your experience cooperating and working with a team to convey information or resolve conflicts.
 A. I have explained findings or recommendations to upper-level managers.
 B. I have planned meetings with external individuals, industry groups, and/or organizations.
 C. I have informed colleagues or senior management of events that may impact ongoing work.
 D. I have collaborated with internal or external representatives to achieve mutual goals.
 E. None of the above.
14. Select the best response that describes your experience working with others to achieve team goals.
 A. I have coordinated assignments from project team members based on factors such as project interests, strengths, and competing workloads.
 B. I have coordinated project team members in preparing communication materials.
 C. I have promoted cooperation among project team members from diverse backgrounds and/or organizations.
 D. I have assisted one or more work team members by completing their tasks when they had a heavy workload.
 E. I have volunteered for assignments during team meetings.
 F. None of the above.
15. Select the best response that describes your experience contributing to improve performance on your team or within your organization.
 A. I have completed projects ahead of schedule.
 B. I have volunteered to take on additional responsibilities at work.
 C. I have monitored the way I perform my work.
 D. I have improved my work products.
 E. I have been recognized or awarded at my work for doing more than expected.
 F. None of the above.
16. Select the best response that describes your experience performing the following leadership-type functions in work unit or team assignments.
 A. I have set standards, expectations, and deadlines.
 B. I have developed, updated, and executed portions of operating budgets.
 C. I have planned the work to be assigned to employees or team members.
 D. I have assigned tasks and responsibilities to employees or team members.
 E. I have established work schedules and worksite assignments.
 F. I have reviewed completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness.
 G. I have followed up with employees or team members to assure timeliness in meeting milestones.
 H. I have resolved conflicts, differences, or problems among employees or team members.
 I. I have coached and mentored employees or team members to achieve desired results.
 J. I have removed or reassigned poor-performing employees or team members.
 K. None of the above.
17. Select the best response that describes your experience providing interpretation and guidance on access policies, procedures to a team or leadership.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in providing interpretation and guidance on access policies, procedures to a team or leadership.
 B. I have had education or training providing interpretation and guidance on access policies, procedures to a team or leadership, but have not performed it on the job.
 C. I have provided interpretation and guidance on access policies, procedures to a team or leadership and my work were closely monitored by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have provided interpretation and guidance on access policies, procedures to a team or leadership and performed independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered and expert at providing interpretation and guidance on access policies, procedures to a team or leadership and am normally consulted by other workers to assist or train them.
18. Please take this opportunity to review your question responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you understand this statement, have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected