Position Title
Surge Hiring Cadre (Detail)
Agency
Department of Homeland Security - Agency Wide
Announcement Number
ST-12776489-25-Detail Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 1, 2025 to Friday, July 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0201 - Human Resources Management
 B. 0203 - Human Resources Assistance
2. Department and Agency
--Select-- 
--Select--
Central Intelligence Agency
Department of Agriculture
Department of Commerce
Department of Defense
Department of Education
Department of Energy
Environmental Protection Agency
General Services Administration
Department of Health and Human Services
Department of Housing and Urban Development
Department of the Interior
Department of Justice
Department of Labor
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
National Science Foundation
Office of the Director of National Intelligence
Office of Management and Budget
Office of Personnel Management
Small Business Administration
Social Security Administration
Smithsonian
Department of State
Department of Trade
Department of Transportation
Department of Treasury
U.S. Agency for International Development
Veterans Administration
Other Agencies and Independent Organizations
3. Other Agencies and Independent Organizations
4. Sub Agency
5. What is your current grade level
 A. GS-7
 B. GS-08
 C. GS-09
 D. GS-11
 E. GS-12
 F. GS-13
 G. GS-14
 H. GS-15
 I. Non-GS pay system
6. If you selected Non-GS Pay System, please indicate your current pay band.
7. What is your current human resources functional area?
 A. Staffing
 B. Payroll and Processing
 C. Recruiter
 D. Data Analytics
 E. Project Management
8. Please select your level of expertise in your HR functional area.
 A. Beginner
 B. Intermediate
 C. Advanced
 D. Expert
9. Do you have a Delegated Examining certification?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Are you a federal, civilian employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Have you served with your current federal agency for more than 90 days and are no longer in a probationary period?

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected