Position Title
Supervisory Nurse
Agency
Armed Forces Retirement Home
Announcement Number
25-AFRH-12766492-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 23, 2025 to Monday, August 11, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Specialized experience for the GS-11: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-9 grade level in the Federal service, which has equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience for this position is defined as:
Overseeing physician/nursing care plans; AND
Reviewing and making recommendations for improvement to quality of overall nursing care; AND
Possession of a diploma, associate's degree, bachelor's degree, or master's degree from a professional nursing educational program.
OR
Successful completion of a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree from a professional nursing educational program or related medical science field.
1. Which one of the following responses best describes your specialized experience and/or education for this position?
 A. I have one year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the GS-09 level as described above AND a diploma, associate's degree, bachelor's degree, or master's degree from a professional nursing educational program.
 B. I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree from a professional nursing educational program or related medical science field.
 C. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. LICENSURE: Applicants must have passed the National Council Licensure Examination. In addition, they must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States.

Do you possess an active, current registration as a professional nurse in a State, District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Did you submit a copy of your license?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. EDUCATION: A graduate or higher level degree, bachelor's degree, associate degree, or diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program is required. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained.

Do you possess a graduate or higher level degree, bachelor's degree, associate degree, or diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Which one of the following statements best describes the work you have performed as a regular part of your job duties?
 A. I have experience directing and managing nurses performing the duties of planning, administering, and monitoring nursing functions to geriatric residents.
 B. I have experience performing the duties of planning, administering, and monitoring nursing functions to geriatric patients.
 C. I have experience performing the duties of planning, administering, and monitoring nursing functions to the patients.
 D. None of the above
6. Which of these resident/patient care oversight duties have you performed? (Select all that apply)
 A. Ensuring resident/patient medication is distributed in accordance with Physician's orders.
 B. Ensuring wound care is performed and documented.
 C. Reviewing work of subordinate employees.
 D. Preparing shift reports to provide documentation of shift activity.
 E. Ensuring patient concerns issues are documented and brought to the attention of the physician.
 F. None of the above
7. Which of the following groups do you have experience leading or supervising? (Select all that apply)
 A. Registered Nurses (RN)
 B. Licensed Practical Nurses (LPN)
 C. Certified/Geriatric Nursing Assistants (CNA/GNA)
 D. Medical Clerks/support staff
 E. None of the above
8. Which of these lead/supervisory oversight duties have you performed? (Select all that apply)
 A. Reviewing resident/patient files to ensure appropriate care has been provided and properly documented.
 B. Allocating nursing staff to needed areas.
 C. Providing input on subordinate performance appraisals.
 D. Instructing professional nurses on proper medical treatments.
 E. Acting as a charge nurse.
 F. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
9. Do you have experience coordinating care with outside/community facilities?
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Do you have experience working with a geriatric population on a regular basis?
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Which of the following have you performed as a regular part of your job duties? Select the ONE statement which you fully meet.
 A. Applied and acted in accordance with professional nursing procedures and rules, including nursing standards and state nursing laws. Worked in an area with few written policies and procedures, which required you to use your own discretion to make decisions.
 B. Applied nursing policies and procedures. Worked in a setting where there were policies and procedures that governed the actions taken.
 C. Applied knowledge of general nursing practices and procedures and/or experience following policies and procedures. Worked in a setting with rigid policies and procedures with no flexibility for decisions on actions to be taken.
 D. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
12. Do you have a current and active CPR certification?
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Have you worked in a facility with any of the following accreditations? (Select all that apply)
 A. CARF (Commission on Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities)
 B. TJC (The Joint Commission)
 C. State or Federal Accreditation
 D. None of the above
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected