Position Title
Waitstaff Supervisor
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
JAX-25-12790963 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 27, 2025 to Monday, September 1, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1. I am willing and able to wear a prescribed uniform while performing duties of this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current Navy NAF employee that occupied a position within NAS Jacksonville MWR at Dewey's? If yes, you must submit a copy of your Personnel Action Report (PAR) at time of application.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I am willing to work a varying/rotating schedule which includes days, night, weekends, and holidays.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I acknowledge that due to the location of this position, incumbents may be required to work during inclement weather conditions, natural disasters, and periods when other programs or offices are closed. I understand and accept that these circumstances may necessitate flexibility in work hours and duties to ensure continued operations and support.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I am willing to be exposed to loud intermittent noise as well as to possible cuts, bruises, burns and slippery floors and smoke fumes.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Waitstaff Supervisor, NS-7420-02, position with Morale, Welfare & Recreation. This assessment will be used to evaluate your experience and skill set levels for the position.  We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Do not over or under state your experience. 

Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents. Any answers that are not supported on a resume will not be counted.
1. How many years of documented experience do you possess leading and training employees?
 A. I possess no previous experience leading and training employees.
 B. I possess less than one (1) year of experience leading and training employees.
 C. I possess between one (1) and three (3) years of experience leading and training employees.
 D. I possess between three (3) and five (5) years of experience leading and training employees.
 E. I possess more than five (5) years of experience leading and training employees.
2. How many years of professional experience do you possess in a serving environment where adherence to proper serving procedures and the use of various table settings were routinely required?
 A. I possess no experience as described above.
 B. I possess less than one (1) year experience as described above.
 C. I possess between one (1) and three (3) years of experience as described above.
 D. I possess between three (3) and five (5) years of experience as described above.
 E. I possess more than five (5) years of experience as described above.
3. How many years of experience with cash handling and maintaining accurate records do you possess?
 A. I possess no documented experience with cash handling and maintaining accurate records.
 B. I possess less than one (1) year experience with cash handling and maintaining accurate records.
 C. I possess between one (1) and three (3) years experience with cash handling and maintaining accurate records.
 D. I possess between three (3) and five (5) years' experience with cash handling and maintaining accurate records.
 E. I possess more than five (5) years experience with cash handling and maintaining accurate records.
4. How many years of experience do you possess with operating cash registers/point of sale systems (POS)? 


 A. I possess no cash register/POS experience.
 B. I possess less than one (1) year of cash register/POS experience.
 C. I possess between one (1) and three (3) years of cash register/POS experience.
 D. I possess between three (3) and five (5) years of cash register/POS experience.
 E. I possess more than five (5) years of cash register/POS experience.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. Do you currently possess a Food Service Sanitation Certificate? (Must include a copy to receive credit)
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Do you currently possess a Alcohol Training Certificate? (Must include a copy to receive credit)
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected