Position Title
Energy Marketing and Management Specialist
Agency
Western Area Power Administration
Announcement Number
25-WB-00570-12810492-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 3, 2025 to Wednesday, October 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a SURPLUS or DISPLACED federal employee (e.g., Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP))?

If yes, confirm:

--you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;
--you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated;
--you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
--your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or equivalent.

For more information on eligibility visit:  https://www.usajobs.gov/help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/federal-employees/career-transition/

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you the spouse of:

--a member of the armed forces serving on active duty;
--a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR
--a service member who was killed while performing active duty (un-remarried widow or widower)?

For more information on eligibility visit: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/military-spouses/

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
3
4


2.
Do any of your relatives work for the agency to which you are applying? If so, please list any applicable names below. Please enter N/A in the text box, if not Applicable. (Include: father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, and half sister).


3.
I understand that the responses in this questionnaire must be fully supported in my online resume. I further understand that my resume must provide detailed descriptions and/or examples of my knowledge and competencies as required in the vacancy announcement, and that my failure to do so may result in my being rated "ineligible" or "not qualified" for this position.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an employee of one of the following?

 Southeastern Power Administration
 Southwestern Power Administration
 Western Area Power Administration
 None of the above


5.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five (5) years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


6.
Please list the title, agency and dates of the appointments


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


7.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


8.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


9.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


10.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


11.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


12.
Applicants must have one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the AD-2/GS-09 grade level in the Federal service. This experience includes ALL the following:

 • Implementing real-time power marketing practices. • Applying energy accounting procedures related to energy scheduling. • Knowledge North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) and the Western Electric Reliability Council (WERC) interchange scheduling policies and procedures including e-tagging. • Analyzing and/or operating in Energy Imbalance Markets (SPP WEIS/CAISO EIM) and/or Fully Integrated Markets (MISO, CAISO, SPPIM).
 SUBSTITUTION OF EDUCATION: Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree; or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree; or LL.M., if related.
 A combination of education and experience to successfully perform the duties of the position.
 I do not meet the requirements as described in A, B, or C above.


13.
Applicants must have one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the AD-3/GS-11 grade level in the Federal service. This experience includes ALL the following:

 • Applying e-tagging standards for energy delivery. • Proficient with OASIS system for understanding transmission outages and the purchase of point-to-point or network transmission products. • Coordinating with both internal and external customers, analyzing data, and providing innovative solutions to complex and/or sensitive issues that occur in a dynamic real-time energy trading environment. • Understanding the interactions of emerging energy markets and the effects on bilateral markets and power scheduling.
 I do not meet the requirements as described in A above.


14.
I understand a valid State driver's license is required. The incumbent must be at least 18 years of age, able to obtain and maintain Defensive Drivers certification. Defensive Driver's Training will be completed upon employment.
 Yes
 No


15.
I understand occasional travel may be required with overnight travel possible during all or part of the time.
 Yes
 No


16.
I understand the duties of this position may require the incumbent to be placed on a 24/7 short notice call out (on-call) status on a rotational basis.
 Yes
 No


17.
I understand regular and recurring overtime, irregular and/or shiftwork and to include rotating shifts, nights, weekends, and/or holidays is required.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙