Position Title
Supervisory Criminal Investigator
Agency
Office of Inspector General
Announcement Number
MS-25-OIG-OI-14 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, August 26, 2025 to Tuesday, September 2, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.
 
2. Are you a current or former DOL employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which you received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• You are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy; AND,
• You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent

Note: To verify your eligibility, you must submit copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a reduction in force (RIF) separation notice, a SF50 reflecting your RIF separation, or a notice of proposed removal for declining a directed reassignment or transfer of function to another commuting area. You must also submit documentation to reflect your current (or last) performance rating of record.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current Office of the Inspector General (OIG) employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment, and have never held a position with a promotion potential of the position being advertised?

Note: To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status.

Your SF-50 must reflect:
• Tenure: Career or career-conditional (1-Permanent or 2-Conditional) - refer to Tenure Box #24 on the SF-50
• Position Occupied: Competitive service (1) - refer to Position Occupied Box #34 on the SF-50

For more information, click here to review USAJOBS resources for Federal Employees.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current Office of the Inspector General (OIG) employee who currently holds or previously held a career or career conditional appointment with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?

Note: To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status.

Your SF-50 must reflect:
• Tenure: Career or career-conditional (1-Permanent or 2-Conditional) - refer to Tenure Box #24 on the SF-50
• Position Occupied: Competitive service (1) - refer to Position Occupied Box #34 on the SF-50

For more information, click here to review USAJOBS resources for Federal Employees.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. I understand that the responses I selected in this questionnaire must be fully supported by detailed descriptions of my work experiences in my resume. In the event that my responses are not supported by my resume, the human resources office will amend my responses to more accurately reflect the level of competency demonstrated in my resume.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD-214, SF-50, most recent performance appraisal dated within 18 months (or a reason explaining why one cannot be provided) may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Where did you first learn about this Department of Labor (DOL) job opportunity?
--Select-- 
--Select--
Other College or University Sponsored Career Fair
Alumni Association
DOL Employee (former or current)
Indeed
LinkedIn
Peace Corps
DOL Office of the Chief Information Officer (OCIO) Outreach
Disability Organization
Military Spouse Program/Network
Veterans Organization
Friend/Relative
USAJOBS
Other
4. Please provide the name of the institution/college/university or organization/program/network where you first heard about this Department of Labor (DOL) job opportunity. If you learned about this DOL job opportunity through a DOL Sponsored Career Fair, please provide the name of the career fair. If not applicable, please enter N/A. (limit 250 characters)
Core Questions
1. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. If you are, or ever were, a Federal civilian employee, please indicate pay plan of the highest graded position you held.
--Select-- 
--Select--
GS
WG
AA
AD
AL
CA
ED
EF
EH
SES
EX
FC
GM
SL
Other
Not applicable
3. If you are, or ever were, a Federal civilian employee, please indicate the highest-grade level you held.
--Select-- 
--Select--
01
02
03
04
05
06
07
08
09
10
11
12
13
14
15
SES or Comparable Level
Other
Not applicable
SL
4. If you are, or ever were, a Federal civilian employee, please indicate the dates of the highest title, series, graded position you held (MM-YYYY to MM-YYYY or Present, or if not applicable, please enter N/A.).

Note: Time-In-Grade restrictions apply in relation to advancement to General Schedule positions of employees in the competitive service. (limit 150 characters)
5. May we contact your current supervisor for a reference?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Please contact me first
6. Does the Department of Labor employ any member of your family?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. If yes to previous question, please provide the name, relationship, organization in which employed, and location if known. If not applicable, please enter N/A. (limit 250 characters)
8. If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Not applicable
9. If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959 AND you have NOT registered with the Selective Service System, do you have an approved exemption?

Note: You will be asked to provide a copy of the exemption prior to the interview and selection.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Not applicable
10. Are you a retiree receiving a Federal annuity, either military or civilian?

Note: If you are an annuitant, your salary or annuity may be reduced upon employment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Not applicable
11. Have you accepted a buyout from a Federal agency within the past 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Not applicable
12. Are you currently serving or have you served in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. In accordance with OPM Qualification Standards Operating Manual, to receive consideration for a position as a criminal investigator, all candidates must meet minimum experience/education requirements. Select the one answer choice that best describe your highest level of experience/training performing criminal investigations:

 A. I possess a minimum of one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-14) as indicated in the duties section of the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the experience requirements describe.
2. An applicant must be at least 21 years of age to enter a law enforcement covered position with the U.S. Department of Labor, Office of Inspector General. Select the answer choice that best describes your age. I will have reached or exceeded the age of twenty-one (21) sixty (60) days from the closing date of this announcement:

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. An applicant may not have reached his/her 37th birthday at the time of initial appointment to a Law Enforcement covered position within the US Department of Labor, Office of Inspector General; select the answer choice that describes your age:

 A. I have not yet reached the age of the thirty-seven (37) and will not reach 37 prior to sixty (60) days from the closing date of this announcement.
 B. I have reached the age of thirty-seven (37) and have been previously, or am currently, appointed to a law-enforcement covered position; or I am a veteran.
 C. I have reached the age of thirty-seven (37) and have not previously served in a law-enforcement covered position, nor am I a veteran.
4. Select the one choice that represents your highest level of experience which demonstrates your ability to communicate orally in both formal and informal settings, moves others toward a common goal, and establishes a professional network with others. An example may include communicating effectively with departmental senior executives, agency executives, senior level management, employee organizations, government officials, and private industry representatives.
 A. I have regularly justified, persuaded, negotiated, or resolved matters involving significant or controversial policy and program issues. This includes communicating effectively with a full range of internal and external individuals or groups (e.g., representatives from private industry, the Agency, Department, or Federal agencies). Communication at this level demonstrates expert skill in persuading and negotiating with others to obtain a desired result.
 B. I have regularly conducted discussions or participated in work groups as a program representative, in which the purpose was to influence, motivate, or persuade persons or groups. This included using communication skills to approach individuals or groups who are skeptical or in disagreement in order to obtain the desired effect, e.g., gaining compliance with an established policy or regulation.
 C. I have regularly served as a program representative and participated in discussions in which the purpose was to plan, coordinate, or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific business problems. This included influencing or motivating individuals or groups who are working toward mutual goals and who have basically cooperative attitudes.
 D. I have regularly served as a program representative in dealing with managers and employees within the areas serviced. This included acquiring, clarifying, or exchanging facts and information needed to complete assignments and respond to various inquiries.
 E. I do not have the experience required.
5. From the following list, select all the supervisory duties you have performed on a regular and recurring basis. (Check all that apply)
 A. Planned work to be accomplished by subordinates, set and adjusted priorities, and prepared schedules for the completion of work.
 B. Assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees.
 C. Responsible for first line supervision to employees.
 D. Developed performance standards and evaluated employees? Work
 E. Instructed employees on both program work and administrative matters.
 F. Interviewed candidates for positions.
 G. Recommended individuals for appointment, promotion, or reassignment.
 H. Worked with employees to identify their development and training needs based on organizational goals and budget realities.
 I. Resolved office conflicts through mediation and/or other forms of alternative dispute resolution.
 J. Resolved office conflicts by providing written guidance.
 K. Addressed employees conduct issues by seeking appropriate human resources actions such as verbal admonishments or suspensions.
 L. Coached employees on performance issues.
 M. Followed necessary steps when an employee’s performance did not improve.
 N. Developed performance improvement plans.
 O. Oversaw the performance of other staff on a team, even though not as a formal supervisor.
 P. None of the above.
6. Select those experience statements that describe your experience in developing, motivating, and evaluating subordinate supervisors and staff.
 A. I have experience assigning work based on priorities and capabilities of employees.
 B. I have experience communicating overall goals and objectives to staff.
 C. I have experience establishing performance plans for supervisors and staff and evaluating performance.
 D. I have experience hearing and/or resolving complaints from employees.
 E. I have experience identifying and distributing work assignments, monitoring progress and evaluating performance.
 F. I have experience identifying developmental and training needs of employees.
 G. I have experience identifying overall training requirements for new programs and establishing timeframes for training completion.
 H. I have experience interviewing candidates for positions.
 I. I have experience monitoring work progress, timeframes, and quality of work.
 J. I have experience providing feedback to supervisors on progress and advice on technical issues or problems.
 K. I have experience of providing technical advice and assistance to staff members.
 L. I have experience providing technical assistance and on-the-job training and ensuring formal training timeframes are met.
 M. I have experience setting and adjusting short-term work priorities.
 N. None of the above.
7. Please select the statement(s) that describe your experience in dealing with working relationships and sensitive issues. Check all that apply.
 A. I have displayed diplomacy and tact in handling sensitive issues.
 B. I have negotiated solutions to difficult problems through knowledge of issues and ability to convey decision/opinions to other parties.
 C. I am aware of political implications of sensitive decision-making in a political environment.
 D. I use networking and teamwork to facilitate decision-making.
 E. None of the above.
8. Choose the response that best fits your experience in conducting research to gather facts, analyzing information, and making course of action recommendations to management:
 A. Conducting research (including gathering facts and making logical conclusions and/or recommendations) is not a part of my regular duties or experience (work or academic) but is something I have done at times.
 B. I have conducted research as a regular part of my duties or experience (work or academic) including making logical conclusions and/or analyzing information to make recommendations to management.
 C. I have had experience (work or academic) in gathering facts as part of a research effort but not in making logical conclusions and/or recommendations.
 D. I have not performed research.
9. Select the statement that best describes your ability to analyze and interpret written material, rules, regulations, laws and/or policies to identify issues, develop solutions and make recommendations, explain complex legal concepts, and inform the decision-making of others:
 A. I have no education, training or experience in performing these tasks.
 B. I have education or training in performing these tasks, but I have not performed them on the job.
 C. I have education or training in performing these tasks, and I have performed them on the job with supervision from supervisors or senior employees.
 D. I performed these tasks as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. These tasks were a central or significant part of my work.
 E. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of my job, and I have trained others to perform these tasks or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
10. Select the option that best describes the level of experience you have in conducting complex analysis, fact finding studies, and evaluations of administrative and technical programs and operations in order to assess the effectiveness of program operations and activities.
 A. I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task.
 B. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee.
 E. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
11. Please select those statements that best describe your highest levels of experience and ability in planning and working with groups and taskforces in developing priorities, action items, and follow-through to implement agreed actions.
 A. I have experience providing leadership for team projects and overseeing individual and staff activities.
 B. I have experience dealing with organizational challenges and working cooperatively and collaboratively with internal/external groups.
 C. I have experience working with a team of professionals in supporting research, answering research and technical questions, test methodologies, and developing analytical tools.
 D. I have experience planning and evaluating the activities of a team.
 E. I have experience translating programs, policy issues or other substantive activities into concise, well-balanced management plans for accomplishing projects.
 F. I have experience planning, organizing and coordinating work assignments.
 G. None of the above.
12. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected