Position Title
Registered Respiratory Therapist (Pulmonary)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12786539-25-AS Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 20, 2025 to Thursday, September 4, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Registered Respiratory Therapist position. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.

NOTE: Make sure your documents support your response that you select. Your resume should include clear and specific descriptions of your experience as it relates to these questions. We may not make assumptions regarding your experience.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. ENGLISH LANGUAGE REQUIREMENT: Persons appointed to direct patient-care positions must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38USC 7403(f).

Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. EDUCATION REQUIREMENT: Have you successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care (CoARC) or its successor American Association for Respiratory Care (AARC)?

OR;

Grandfathering Provision: The following is the standard grandfathering policy for all hybrid title 38 qualification standards. Some of these provisions may not apply to this occupation. Please carefully review the qualification standard to determine the specific education, credential or certification requirements that apply to this occupation. All persons employed in VHA in this occupational series or in another occupational series and performing the duties as described in the qualification standard on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade held, including positive education, credential or certification that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements required in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it.

NOTE: You must upload a copy of your Transcript with your application to verify course was taken.
 A. Yes, I have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care (CoARC) or its successor American Association for Respiratory Care (AARC)
 B. Yes, I qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation).
 C. No, I have no completed the education requirements for this position.
3. LICENSURE REQUIREMENT: Do you currently possess a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT?

NOTE:: You must upload a copy of your License with your application.
 A. Yes, I currently possess a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT.
 B. Yes, I qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation).
 C. No, I do not have an active unrestricted license.
4. CREDENTIAL REQUIREMENT: Do you currently possess a valid, current, unrestricted credential of RRT?

NOTE: You must upload a copy of your Credentials with your application.
 A. Yes, I currently possess a valid, current, unrestricted credential of RRT.
 B. Yes, I qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation).
 C. No, I do not currently possess a valid, current, unrestricted credential of RRT.
5. CREDENTIAL REQUIREMENT: Do you currently possess a valid, current, unrestricted credential of Registered Pulmonary Function Technologist (RPFT) or Certified Pulmonary Function Technologist (CPFT)?

NOTE: RPFT or CPFT Credential Must be uploaded with your application.
 A. Yes, I currently possess a valid, current, unrestricted credential of Registered Pulmonary Function Technologist (RPFT)
 B. Yes, I currently possess a valid, current, unrestricted credential of Certified Pulmonary Function Technologist (CPFT)
 C. No, I do not currently possess a valid, current, unrestricted credential of Registered Pulmonary Function Technologist (RPFT)
6. Grade Determination - GS-12: Do you currently possess one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level?

Examples of specialized experience include, but are not limited to: responsible for the following under general guidance in both inpatient and/or outpatient settings. RRTs obtain, interpret and analyze physiological specimens and data. They consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals to ensure quality of patient care within area of specialty. They manage and maintain the airway and ventilation of the patient through the use of appropriate mechanical means. Assess and evaluate patients to determine and recommend intervention to develop and implement a plan of care, such as, implementing protocols, intubation, monitoring critical systems and uses advanced modes of ventilation. Provide outpatient services such as home ventilators, PAP therapy, oxygen therapy and COPD care.

NOTE: Your Resume must reflect your experience.
 A. Yes, I currently possess one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level?
 B. No, I do not currently possess One year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level?
7. Knowledge, Skills and Abilities - GS-12: Do you possess the the following Knowledge Skills, and Abilities for the following GS- 12 position?
Knowledge of complex pulmonary function testing to include but not limited to cardiopulmonary stress testing, exercise testing, metabolic testing, bronchoprovocation testing and shunt testing.
Ability to establish a quality control program related to pulmonary function lab.
Skill in analyzing physiologic specimen and information from basic diagnostic procedures.
Skill in assessing for signs and symptoms of adverse actions to medications and or testing procedures.
Skill in determining appropriate intervention for adverse actions to medications and or testing procedures.
Ability to provide training in advanced pulmonary function procedures.
Ability to provide clinical consultation in advanced pulmonary function procedures.

NOTE: Your resume must reflect your experience.
 A. Yes, I possess the the following Knowledge Skills, and Abilities for the following GS-12 position?
 B. No, I do not possess the the following Knowledge Skills, and Abilities for the following GS-12 position?
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected