Position Title
Marketing Management Assistant
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
PEN 25-12779280 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 8, 2025 to Friday, August 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with us. We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position.  Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.
1. A minimum of 3 years of practical experience in marketing, sponsorship, advertising/or special event programming is highly desirable.

Which answer below best describes your experience?
 A. I have at least 3 years of documented experience in marketing, sponsorship, advertising/or special event programming
 B. I have at least 3 years of documented experience in at least 2 of the categories mentioned above.
 C. I have between 1 to 3 years of documented experience in marketing, sponsorship, advertising/or special event programming
 D. I have between 1 to 3 years of documented experience in at least 2 of the categories mentioned above.
 E. I have less than 1 year of documented experience in marketing, sponsorship, advertising/or special event programming
 F. I have no experience in any of the categories mentioned above.
2. Please select the answer that best describes your educational experience.
 A. I have a high school diploma/GED
 B. I have an Associate's degree.
 C. I have a Bachelor's degree
 D. I have neither a diploma or college degree.
3. This position will involves soliciting for Commercial Sponsorship and preparing Commercial Sponsorship agreements. What is your experience/knowledge of commercial sponsorship and associated requirements and recordkeeping as it pertains to a Navy MWR or DOD equivalent marketing program?
 A. I have 3 years' experience with the above, independently managing a commercial sponsorship program.
 B. I have between 1 - 2 years' experience assisting with a commercial sponsorship program.
 C. I have less than 1 year of experience with the above task.
 D. I have no experience
4. The incumbent will create marketing material for all MWR facilities to include monthly newsletters, graphic design, flyers and posters, lamination, and display material for A Frames.

What level of knowledge and experience do you have working with in-house printing and production equipment?i.e., Konica Minolta Bizhub printers with fold/staple unit, heat press laminators, and plotter/large-format printer for posters
 A. I have 3 or more years of experience as described above
 B. I have 1 to 3 years of experience as described above
 C. I have less than 1 year of experience as described above
 D. I have no experience
5. What is your level of experience using graphics applications and software on PC computer platforms?

Software experience should include Microsoft Office (Outlook, Powerpoint, Publisher, Word and Excel), Adobe Creation suite (Photo Shop, InDesign, etc.) software.
 A. I have 3 or more years of experience with the technical skill as described above.
 B. I have 1 to 2 years of experience with the technical skill as described above.
 C. I have less than 1 year of experience with the technical skill as described above.
 D. I have no experience
6. What level of knowledge and experience working on Websites, social media and other digital outlets do you have?
 A. My resume demonstrates 5 or more years’ experience performing the above tasks.
 B. My resume demonstrates 2 to 4 years’ experience performing the above tasks.
 C. My resume demonstrates 1 to 2 years’ experience performing the above tasks.
 D. I have no experience
7. My MICROSOFT OFFICE proficiency can best be described as
 A. Advanced EXCEL, WORD, PowerPoint and Publisher
 B. Intermediate EXCEL, WORD, PowerPoint and Publisher
 C. Beginner EXCEL, WORD, PowerPoint and Publisher
 D. No experience
8. My experience in the timely development, layout, writing, editing, revising, proofing, printing and distribution of publications and advertisements can best be described as:
 A. I have 2 or more years' experience with the above and consistently meet deadlines.
 B. I have between 1 and 2 years' experience with the above and meet deadlines.
 C. I have less than 1 year of experience with the above.
 D. I have no experience
9. My experience in creating, editing, printing and producing newsletters, marketing material, and social media accounts, ensuring all relevant and factual data is included, current and applicable, can be best described as: (Choose all that apply)
 A. I have been responsible for editing and producing monthly newsletters.
 B. I have administered social media accounts for prior employers.
 C. I have been responsible for producing content and placing digital signage across a large organization.
 D. I have been responsible for producing banners and posters and placing them throughout a target area.
 E. I have represented a marketing department at special events.
 F. I do not have experience in the areas listed above.
10. This position requires customer service skills as there is an extensive amount of interaction with coworkers, customers, vendors and suppliers and command staff.

Which answer below best describes your customer service and public speaking experience.
 A. I have expensive experience with customer service, and I am very comfortable with public speaking, providing briefs and orientations as needed.
 B. I have previously worked in customer service, and I have some experience with public speaking.
 C. I have some experience with customer service, but do not have public speaking experience.
 D. I have no experience
11. How much experience working with policies, guidance and procedures pertaining to non-appropriated fund (NAF) and/or appropriated fund (AF) policies have you documented on your resume?
 A. I have 3 or more years experience with NAF &/or AF fund policies.
 B. I have between 1 - 2 years' experience with NAF &/or AF fund policies.
 C. I do not have experience with NAF &/or AF fund policies.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected