Position Title
Supervisory Human Resources Specialist (Compensation)
Agency
U.S. Secret Service
Announcement Number
BPR-AA-12790397-25-SS Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 11, 2025 to Wednesday, September 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position and meet the ALL of the following? 
Located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; and
Applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice.
SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), that reflects all of the following:
Position, grade level (GS-15 or below), and duty location; and
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is "1" or "2" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34), or excepted service without time limit (Position Occupied is "2" in block 34) who is covered by a law providing both noncompetitive appointment eligibility to, and selection priority for, competitive service positions.
Any documentation from agency that shows current promotion potential; and
Latest performance appraisal including rating.
For more information, review Career Transition (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current United States Secret Service employee in the competitive service?

To verify eligibility, as a CURRENT Secret Service Employee you must submit your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following (you may need to submit more than one SF-50 to comply):
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is 1 or 2 in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34); and
Highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent SF-50); and
Time-in-grade eligibility.
Please note: Examples of appropriate Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, include promotions and with-in grade/range increases. While a General Adjustment and/or Award SF-50 may be your most recent SF-50 it typically DOES NOT show proof of Time in Grade. Thus, you may need to submit more than one SF-50 as proof of Time in Grade.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
All applicants must complete the following section. This section will be used to determine your ability and willingness to accept certain conditions of employment or meet certain requirements of the position. Please respond 'Yes' or 'No' to the following statements. Failure to respond to this section will result in an ineligible rating.
All applicants must undergo a comprehensive background investigation. The background investigation focuses on your honesty, reliability, police record, financial record, use of alcohol and drugs, mental health, and employment record. The background investigation includes interviews with your past and present employers, neighbors, teachers, and references, as well as checks of law enforcement, credit, educational, medical, and other records.
1. In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF-50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. If I receive a conditional offer of employment, I am willing to undergo a pre-employment drug screening.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Recruiter ID Number: If you have one, please enter your recruiter's ID number. (Your recruiter would have supplied it to you). If you do not have one, please enter 0 (zero). (limit 7 characters)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Supervisory Human Resources Specialist (Compensation) position with the United States Secret Service. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
1. Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Supervisory Human Resources Specialist (Compensation) at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service which includes providing a full range of advisory services to internal and external stakeholders on federal laws, regulations, policies, and procedures governing compensation and payroll programs and functions; researching and interpreting Federal laws, regulations, policies, and procedures to assist in streamlining payroll processes; developing payroll policies, guides, and standard operating procedures to support payroll operations; providing advice, counsel and instructions to staff members on work assignment and administrative matters related to payroll operations.
 B. My experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.
2. Select the statement that best describes your skills in researching and analyzing information sufficient to make recommendations to managers and employees regarding payroll related matters.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I assisted others who were responsible for analyzing and conducting research in support of payroll related matters.
 C. I have been responsible for segments of larger research projects in support of payroll related matters.
 D. I led research projects and analyzed information in support of payroll related matters.
 E. I directed a program of research in support of payroll related matters.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. Do you have experience interpreting complex payroll/personnel rules and regulations and policy guidance to provide recommendations to policy changes and payroll/personnel systems?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. From the list below, select the statement that best describes your experience explaining employment and pay issues to applicants and/or employees.
 A. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
5. From the list below, select the statement that best describes your experience meeting and working with a wide range of employees and managers while providing technical support in human resources.
 A. I have experience working with a wide range of employees, managers and administrative points of contact at all levels outside my immediate office.
 B. I have experience working with co-workers and supervisors within my immediate office.
 C. I have experience using the telephone to contact others in an office setting.
 D. I do not have the experience or training as described above.
6. Describe your experience analyzing and auditing human resources programs and issues to develop recommendations or alternative solutions.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education and/or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have performed it independently, without review by a supervisor or senior employee, and others regularly consult me for my expertise.
7. From the list below select the statement that best describes your experience analyzing complex data to solve payroll/personnel issues.
 A. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have performed this task, trained others in performance of this task, and I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
8. From the list below select the automated human resources system(s) in which you are proficient and have experience working with (proficient means you understand and have utilized a major part of the system's functionality/capabilities).
 A. National Business Center automated human resources/payroll system
 B. National Finance Center automated human resources/payroll system
 C. Other Federal automated human resources/payroll system
 D. Non-Federal automated human resources/payroll system
 E. None of the above
9. From the list below, select the statement that best describes your experience in applying personnel laws, regulations, procedures, and policies when processing personnel and/or payroll actions.
 A. I have experience processing personnel actions in a human resources office where I acquired a working knowledge of Federal, State or private sector personnel laws, regulations, policies and procedures.
 B. I have completed formal training in the application of personnel laws, regulations, policies, and procedures, but I have not performed this function on the job.
 C. I do not have experience performing this function.
10. From the list below, select the payroll related activities that you performed on a regular and recurring basis.
 A. Provide advice and assistance to customers on payroll policies and procedures.
 B. Assist managers with personnel action changes and their effects.
 C. Maintain contact with personnel to resolve unique and recurring payroll problems.
 D. Utilize automated systems to research personnel and payroll issues.
 E. None of the above
11. From the list below select all of the statements that describe your experience with performance management duties.
 A. Advising management on appropriate procedures and practices involved in developing employee performance.
 B. Providing management advisory services in coaching, counseling, recognizing top performers, and taking appropriate actions on performance issues.
 C. Administering the employee appraisal program to include a comprehensive annual and ongoing evaluation of the program.
 D. Ensuring that mandatory requirements such as employee performance plan issuance, mid-year reviews, and final reviews are met.
 E. Advising managers and supervisors on evaluation, feedback and recognition techniques.
 F. Advising managers and supervisors on establishment of critical elements and standards, aligning employee performance plans with organizational goals.
 G. Advising managers and supervisors on performance requirements and the overall adequacy and quality of employee performance plans.
 H. None of the above
12. From the list below select the statement that best describes the extent to which you have experience planning, organizing, and coordinating assignments.
 A. I have planned, organized, and coordinated my own assignments using specific instructions provided to me by others.
 B. I have planned, organized, and coordinated assignments for myself that involved developing new routines and instructions.
 C. I have planned, organized, and coordinated work assignments for myself and others on my team or work unit.
 D. I have experience planning, organizing, and coordinating complex work assignments for myself, for others on my team or my work unit, and for others outside of my team or my work unit.
 E. None of the above
13. From the list below, select the statements that describe your experience in developing the skills of your subordinates.
 A. I have utilized training plans developed by my supervisor to enhance the skills of my staff.
 B. I have developed and implemented training plans for a staff.
 C. I have directly provided on-the-job training to one of more staff.
 D. I have provided new opportunities for my staff and provided oral and written feedback relative to their performance of new tasks.
 E. None of the above.
14. From the list below, select all of the statements that demonstrate your experience with written material.
 A. Write non-technical information for internal and external audiences.
 B. Prepare interoffice memoranda.
 C. Prepare letters for external organizations on behalf of the Department/Agency.
 D. Prepare performance evaluations.
 E. Complete incident reports.
 F. Review reports for technical accuracy, adherence to policy and organization of material.
 G. None of the above
15. From the list below select the statement that best describes your level of experience in researching and gathering information from a variety of regulatory, policy and program materials to prepare written recommendations.
 A. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised and/or trained others in the performance of this task and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
16. From the list below select the statement that best reflects your experience with written communication at work.
 A. I have composed informal e-mail messages to customers, supervisors, and peers.
 B. I have used document templates (such as e-mail stationary or form letters) to develop formal communication (e-mails, memos. or letters) to provide information to customers, supervisors, and peers on routine matters.
 C. I have composed formal communication (e-mails, memos, or letters) to relay technical information to customers, supervisors, and peers on non-routine matters. Documents were approved by someone else before sending.
 D. I have independently composed and signed formal communication (e-mails, memos or letters) to relay technical information to customers, supervisors, and peers on non-routine matters.
 E. None of the above.
17. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.


 A. Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected