Position Title
Immigration Officer
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12794490-FDSSIB-ST-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 4, 2025 to Monday, September 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current DHS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

Do you wish to be considered under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) because you are a current or former Federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.704

For more information about ICTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. The Reemployment Priority List (RPL) is the mechanism DHS uses to give reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees separated by reduction-in-force (RIF), or fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a former DHS employee?  If so, have you met all of the following criteria?
Registered for the RPL program, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupied a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current/most recent performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent, and
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606.
For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, visit 5 CFR 330 Subpart B.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
My SF-50 showing Separation - RIF. If that is not available yet, then official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Do you wish to be considered under the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) because you meet one of the following criteria?
Are a preference-eligible veteran,
OR
Are a veteran separated from the armed forces after three (3) or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions. 
Note: Veterans claiming eligibility on the basis of service in a campaign or expedition for which a medal was awarded must be in receipt of the campaign badge or medal.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
DD-214 showing character of service, and
If applying based on your preference as a disabled veteran, you must submit your letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) showing the combined service-connected disability rating, or other acceptable documentation. 
See OPM's Vet Guide or SF-15 for more information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Camp Springs, MD
 B. Newark, NJ
 C. New York, NY
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
12
13
3. I acknowledge the following conditions if I choose to submit my resume through the USAJOBS Resume Builder:
I understand that resumes submitted through USAJOBS Resume Builder are converted to a PDF format when they are transmitted to USA Staffing from the USAJOBS applicant interface and additional spaces/page gaps are added to resumes during the Resume Builder conversion process;
Based on the above conditions, I understand that USCIS strongly encourages me to save my resume to a PDF document and upload the PDF document instead of submitting my resume created through Resume Builder;
I understand that USCIS' human resources will only review the first 2 pages of my resume to determine eligibility/qualifications for this position;
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I have met this requirement for consideration.

(Note: Additional guidance regarding this requirement is available within the How to Submit Your Resume section of the USCIS Resume Requirement FAQs.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 D. No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.
5. Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) from the Federal Government within the last 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. I acknowledge that this position is NOT remote and that if selected, I will be expected to report to the duty station listed within the announcement text.
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I understand this requirement.
By answering NO to this question, I am asking to be removed from further consideration for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. GS-12 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
2. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
3. GS-13 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
4. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
5. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-12. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
6. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-13. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
The following section contains a multitude of question types. If you see a radio button, you can only select one response. If you see a checkbox, you may select all that apply.
7. Select the activities you have performed related to ensuring the accuracy of data related to immigration fraud.
 A. Reviewed applications/petitions for completeness.
 B. Verified accuracy of entered data
 C. Updated database with new or revised information.
 D. Created queries to facilitate data review.
 E. Conducted database searches to identify potential issues (i.e., fraud).
 F. None of the above.
8. Which sources have you researched to adjudicate applications for benefits?
 A. Precedent decisions
 B. Guidance in legislative history
 C. Federal laws and regulations
 D. State and local news
 E. Operating instructions
 F. International treaties
 G. None of the above
9. Which sources of information have you independently researched and interpreted to embrace a course of action related to a case?
 A. Sections of law and regulations
 B. Standard Operating Procedures
 C. References and guidance contained in legislative history
 D. Precedent decisions
 E. International treaties
 F. None of the above
10. Which statement best describes your reaction when work processes frequently change?
 A. I quickly adapt when work processes frequently change and assist others.
 B. I don’t like it when work processes frequently change but I will adapt accordingly.
 C. I don't mind when my work processes frequently change and I remain positive.
 D. I struggle with regaining my momentum when work processes frequently change and have difficulty adapting to the change.
11. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience in solving complex problems in the workplace.
 A. I have solved difficult problems in the workplace by surrounding myself with others who are strong in problem solving and learning from them.
 B. I am positive in my approach and reframe the problem or issue to come up with new solutions.
 C. I have solved complex problems in the workplace by focusing on details, thinking analytically, and offering practical solutions that evaluate the potential costs, resources, and barriers to a successful solution.
 D. I have identified problems in the workplace but have no experience solving complex problems in the workplace.
12. Which activities have you performed related to legislation, regulations, policy and procedures?
 A. Reviewed legislation, regulations, policies, and procedures to identify and compile the applicable information.
 B. Determined compliance/non-compliance with the applicable legislation, regulations, policy and procedure and informed others for decision-making.
 C. Reviewed new or changes to legislation, regulations, policies, and procedures to identify organizational impacts.
 D. Explained interpretations of the legislation, regulations, policy and procedures to others.
 E. Provided recommendations for a course of action as a result of the relevant legislation, regulations, policy and procedures.
 F. None of the above.
13. Which activities have you performed to provide assistance to immigration personnel?
 A. Identified individuals who posed a threat to national security.
 B. Prosecuted those who committed fraud while seeking services and benefits.
 C. Analyzed petitions and applications to discern fraud patterns.
 D. Participated in fact finding and supported enforcement personnel when information indicated fraud.
 E. Granted applications based on review of supporting documentation, data derived from a systems search, and/or evidence generated by hearings or interviews.
 F. Referred cases to appropriate channels where fraud was suspected.
 G. None of the above.
14. Which actions have you taken to prepare a response to inquiries pertaining to Nationality Laws?
 A. I reviewed Immigration Law documents to ensure I provided the correct response to customers and stakeholders.
 B. I used form letters and filled in pertinent items when corresponding with applicants or their representatives.
 C. I reviewed documents that my peers created to ensure accuracy.
 D. None of the above.
15. Which activities have you performed to verify the accuracy of information on immigration benefit application forms?
 A. I compared application form information to Forms of Identification issued by foreign governments (e.g., passport, entry documentation).
 B. I compared application form information to existing database information.
 C. I checked application forms for grammatical errors.
 D. None of the above.
16. I evaluated the immigration benefits process to identify and correct patterns of error (e.g., compliance with law/procedure, adjudication errors).
 A. True
 B. False
17. Select the areas in which you have reviewed work for accuracy
 A. I have provided accurate and consistent feedback on work products.
 B. I have provided information timely and in a clear format for others to act on.
 C. I have reviewed and verified the accuracy of information and work products.
 D. I have independently monitored work details and the quality of my own work according to established policies, procedures, and guidelines.
 E. I have not reviewed work for accuracy.
18. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience developing action plans to achieve goals?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to developing action plans to achieve goals.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to developing action plans to achieve goals, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I reviewed office goals for alignment with the organizational mission.
 D. I created action plans to implement and meet goals across program areas.
 E. I participated in developing action items to support establishing goals for a specific program area.
 F. I led others in the development of actions items to support specific goals in a program areas.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
19. Do you have experience responding to email inquiries that required explaining procedures?
 A. Yes
 B. No
20. Select all of the activities you've performed that involved collaborating with other agency programs as well as government and non-governmental partners.
 A. I have worked with colleagues within my agency to solve problems and improve processes.
 B. I have worked with staff in other agencies or similar organization to solve problems or improve processes.
 C. I have partnered with agency staff and non-governmental agencies to resolve issues or improve understanding of agency processes and programs.
 D. I have led groups of colleagues within USCIS in efforts to improve relationships with non-governmental organizations that have a need to understand USCIS programs and processes.
 E. None of the above.
21. Select the activities you've performed that are related to building effective partnerships to increase knowledge of programs that support immigration.
 A. I have worked with colleagues within my immediate organization (e.g. Field Office, District Office) to solve problems and improve processes.
 B. I have worked with senior management staff within my Region or similar organization to improve outreach and communication to non-governmental agencies.
 C. I have partnered with other agency staff and non-governmental agencies to improve education, communication, and understanding of immigration programs and processes.
 D. I have led groups of colleagues within USCIS in efforts to improve education, communication, and understanding of USCIS programs and processes with individuals, groups, and organizations outside of USCIS.
 E. None of the above.
22. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience interacting with law enforcement entities?
 A. I analyzed law enforcement information received indirectly and incorporated it into decision-making.
 B. I have been a point of contact for law enforcement entities.
 C. I cultivated relationships with law enforcement entities to promote inter-agency collaboration.
 D. I have no experience, training, or education related to interacting with law enforcement entities.
 E. I completed education and/or training related to interacting with law enforcement entities, but do not have professional experience.
23. Which statement best describes your role in aligning work with organizational goals and objectives?
 A. I have worked within a team to achieve organizational goals and objectives.
 B. I have led a team to achieve organizational goals and objectives.
 C. I have supervised a team to achieve organizational goals and objectives.
 D. None of the above
24. Which statement best describes your highest level of making sound, well-informed recommendations?
 A. I asked for guidance from others (peers, supervisors, trainers).
 B. I referenced established training documents and operating procedures to solve work problems.
 C. I collaborated with peers to make sound, well-informed decisions.
 D. I trained others on techniques to assist in making well-informed recommendations.
25. If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "pass," "satisfactory," or better?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. I am a Federal employee but have not received a performance rating.
 D. Not applicable. I am not a Federal employee.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
26. Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected