Position Title
Materials Handler
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12769590 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 30, 2025 to Wednesday, August 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Conditions of Employment
1. I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 75 pounds.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This position requires selectee to satisfactorily complete all background checks in accordance with PL 101-647 to include National Agency Check with Written Inquiries (NACI). If access to Government computer, databases, and/or systems is required in the performance of duties, the incumbent must pass SF- 86/Eligibility for Secret Clearance upon hire and periodically thereafter as a condition of employment. To obtain a Secret Clearance, selectee must be a U.S. Citizen. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. For security clearance purposes, I am or will be 18 years of age or older prior to start of employment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Materials Handler position for the Deployed Forces Branch. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.
1. What is your level of practical work experience in direct customer service?
 A. I have 3+ years of experience in direct customer service.
 B. I have 1-2 years of experience in direct customer service.
 C. I have less than one year of experience in direct customer service.
 D. I do not have experience with direct customer service.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. This position requires for applicants to have or be able to obtain and maintain a forklift driver's license within 60-days of employment which requires passing a medical examination prior to taking the forklift classes and exam. Would you be able to meet these instructions?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This position requires for applicants to have or be able to obtain and maintain a CPR and First Aid certification within 90-days of being hired. Would you be able to meet these instructions?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. How would you describe your overall knowledge of warehousing operations, encompassing planning, documentation, methods, and procedures?
 A. Basic: Familiar with fundamental warehousing concepts.
 B. Intermediate: Can independently manage warehousing tasks and contribute to process improvements.
 C. Expert: Can lead warehousing initiatives, develop new strategies, and mentor others.
 D. No knowledge or experience in the above.
5. What is your knowledge and experience level with maintenance and repair tools and equipment, including proficiency in using hand and power tools?
 A. Basic: Limited experience with common hand tools and basic maintenance equipment
 B. Intermediate: Comfortable using variety of hand and power tools for routine maintenance and repairs
 C. Expert: Extensive experience with wide range of specialized tools and equipment for complex maintenance and repair tasks
 D. No knowledge or experience with the above.
6. What is your level of experience in evaluating, troubleshooting, analyzing, and performing corrective maintenance on fitness equipment?
 A. Basic: Can identify obvious issues and perform simple fixes with guidance
 B. Intermediate: Can independently diagnose common problems and complete most repairs
 C. Expert: Can solve complex technical issues and handle specialized equipment repairs
 D. No knowledge or experience with the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected