Position Title
Dental Hygienist
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJW1010264549HW Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 15, 2025 to Wednesday, October 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Dental Hygienist position with the Department of Defense. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you meet the basic eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Public Law 97-35 requires that persons who administer radiologic procedures meet the credentialing standards in 42 CFR Part 75. You must (1) have successfully completed an educational program that meets or exceeds the standards described in that regulation and is accredited by an organization recognized by the Department of Education, and (2) be certified as a radiographer in your field. Select the one statement that best describes how you meet this certification requirement.
 I meet the credentialing standards of 42 CFR Part 75. I have successfully completed an educational program that meets or exceeds the standards described in that regulation and is accredited by an organization recognized by the Department of Education; AND am certified as a radiographer in my field. (Note: You must attach a copy of your certification.)
 I was employed by the Federal Government as radiologic personnel PRIOR TO the effective date of the regulation (January 13, 1986). (Note: You must attach evidence of current or fully satisfactory performance or certification of such from a licensed practitioner such as a Doctor of Medicine, osteopathy, dentistry, podiatry, or chiropractic who prescribes radiologic procedures to others.)
 I was first employed by the Federal Government as radiologic personnel AFTER the effective date of the regulation (January 13, 1986), and (1) received training from institutions in a State or foreign jurisdiction that did not accredit training in that particular field at the time of graduation; OR (2) practiced in a State or foreign jurisdiction that did not license that particular field or did not allow special eligibility to take a licensure examination for those who did not graduate from an accredited educational program. (Note: You must attach evidence with your application to prove training, experience, and competence. Examples of acceptable proof: transcripts, letters of recommendation, etc.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements OR I am not willing to complete an alternative certification program at my own expense prior to employment.


2.
Applicants for all grade levels and specializations must be currently licensed to practice as a Dental Hygienist in a State or territory of the United States or the District of Columbia. (NOTE: You must attach a copy of your licensure.)
 I am currently licensed to practice as a Dental Hygienist in a State or territory of the United States or the District of Columbia.
 I do not possess the license described above.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Dental Hygienist at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-06 in the Federal service which includes performing prophylactic dental procedures; completing oral examinations; and performing or interpreting routine x-rays.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙