Position Title
Criminal Investigator (Special Agent)
Agency
Office of the Inspector General for Tax Administration
Announcement Number
25-TIGTA-12791878 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 3, 2025 to Tuesday, September 16, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency covered by an OPM Interchange agreement that conveys noncompetitive eligibility?

For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=InterchangeAgreementsWithOtherMeritSystems

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following merit promotion categories?
Current Federal civilian employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current Excepted service employee covered by an Interchange Agreement
Former Federal employee with Reinstatement eligibility
Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA)
Current Federal employee serving on a VRA appointment
Land Management Employee eligible under Public Law 114-47
Other competitive category not listed above (you must submit proof of eligibility)
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you eligible to be appointed under the Military Spouse Noncompetitive Appointing Authority based on any of the following categories?
You are the spouse of an active duty member of the Armed Forces.
You are the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs.
You are the widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status, and you have not re-married.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources. (https://www.usajobs.gov/Veterans)

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a former federal employee that has been separated for at least one full year and is eligible to be non-competitively reinstated to a higher grade or full-performance level than which you left federal employment?(Note: you MUST provide:  1) a copy of your separation SF-50 (the "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2"); AND 2) the last performance appraisal you received from your federal employment which shows at least a fully successful rating.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Do you currently hold (or have you previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you eligible under any other miscellaneous appointing authority not listed thus far, such as (but not all inclusive to):
Postal Career Service Employee;
Postal Rate Commission Employee;
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; 
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee; or 
Foreign overseas employee or eligible family member of former overseas employee
 
For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=MiscellaneousAuthoritiesNotRegulated .  
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

For more information on Foreign overseas employment please review the following: https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#NontemporaryForeignService or https://www.state.gov/global-community-liaison-office/family-member-employment/family-member-employment-in-the-d-c-area/non-competitive-eligibility-nce/#NCE5




 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you eligible for consideration as a Peace Corps, VISTA, or Action volunteer?  If you select this option, you are required to provide acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility by submitting proof of employment from the appropriate agency with your completed application.

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions and you:

• recently separated (within the past 3 years)
• are a disabled veteran
• served on active duty during a war, campaign or expedition OR
• received an Armed Forces Service Medal

If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. If claiming disability preference, provide the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
7
9
11
2. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other
4. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
5. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
7. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8.

Incumbents selected for Criminal Investigator positions are covered under special law enforcement provisions. This requires that applicants not exceed the maximum age for entry. The date immediately preceding an applicants 37th birthday is the final date for selection. The age restriction does not apply if you served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement officer (FLEO) position covered by special civil service retirement provisions, including early or mandatory retirement.

If you are not subject to the age restriction because you have previously served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement officer (FLEO) position as described above, you must submit an SF 50 (or equivalent documentation) showing service in a covered civilian law enforcement. OR If you are not subject to the age restriction because you are a preference eligible veteran, you must submit appropriate veterans documentation to establish that you are eligible for veteran's preference in order to waive the age requirements for this position.

Will you have reached your 37th birthday by the closing date of this announcement?

 A. I will NOT have reached my 37th birthday by the close of this announcement.
 B. I am not subject to the age restriction because I served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement officer (FLEO) position as described above.
 C. I am a preference eligible veteran and am not subject to the requirements above.
 D. I will be 37 or older by the close date of this announcement. I am not a preference eligible veteran and have not previously served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement (FLEO) position.
9.

Medical Requirements: The selectee must pass a pre-appointment physical examination and meet the physical requirements for this position as required by this agency. The duties of this position require moderate to arduous physical exertion involving walking and standing, use of firearms, and exposure to inclement weather. Manual dexterity with comparatively free motion of finger, wrist, elbow, shoulder, hip, and knee joints is required. Arms, hands, legs, and feet must be sufficiently intact and functioning in order that applicants may perform the duties satisfactorily. Sufficiently good vision and hearing are required to perform the duties satisfactorily. Because the duties of this position are exacting, responsible, and sometimes performed under trying conditions, the selectee must possess emotional and mental stability. Any physical condition that would cause the selectee to be a hazard to himself/herself, or others is disqualifying.

Do you meet the physical requirements as described above?

 A. Yes, I possess the requirements listed above.
 B. I do not possess the requirements listed above.
Performance Appraisal
1. As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of your most recent rating of record(i.e; final annual performance appraisal issued and signed by appropriate management officials) dated within the last 18 months. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these requirements or if it is not dated within the last 18 months, you must explain why you are unable to do so. If you do not provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration.

Type "yes" in the text box below if you are providing a performance appraisal meeting the above requirements with your application. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application meeting the requirements, please provide a reason in the text box below. (This is required of all applicants regardless of prior federal service. "N/A" is not considered an acceptable response.)
Assessment 1
1. Specialized experience: For the GS-11, You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as:

Performing criminal and administrative investigations;
AND
Utilizing various investigative techniques to establish interrelationships of facts or evidence.

OR
You may possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LLM. Only graduate level education in excess of the first two years 36 semester hours (54 quarter hours) may be combined to be considered for qualifying education.

OR
You may qualify on a combination of education and experience. To combine education and experience, the total percentage of experience at the required grade level compared to the requirement, as well as the percentage of completed education compared to the requirement must equal at least 100 percent.

From the choices below, select the item that best describes your education and/or experience.
 A. I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-09 level as described above.
 B. I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M. Attach a copy of transcript or list of college courses designating semester or quarter hours earned to ensure proper credit.
 C. I am qualifying based on a combination of education and experience. Together the percentage of experience and education as they relate to the requirement total at least 100 percent.
 D. I do not meet any of the requirements as stated above.
2. For the GS-09: Specialized experience is one year at the GS-07 level, or equivalent, that has equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position. Specialized experience includes working in a trainee capacity performing segments of investigations such as:

Researching legal documents and/or interviewing witnesses to verify facts and obtain specific pieces of information;
AND
Securing signed statements, affidavits and documentary evidence;
AND
Completing reports for case records.

OR
Masters or equivalent graduate degree, or two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.B. or J.D., if related. From the choices below, select the item that best describes your education and experience. Only graduate level education in excess of the first 18 semester hours (27 quarter hours) may be combined to be considered for qualifying education.

OR
You may qualify on a combination of education and experience. To combine education and experience, the total percentage of experience at the required grade level compared to the requirement, as well as the percentage of completed education compared to the requirement must equal at least 100 percent.

From the choices below, select the item that best describes your education and/or experience.
 A. I am qualifying based on a combination of education and experience. Together the percentage of experience and education as they relate to the requirement total at least 100 percent.
 B. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level in the Federal Service.
 C. I possess two full years of progressively higher graduate education OR a Master’s or equivalent graduate degree OR LLB or JD.
 D. I do not meet the required education and/or experience as described above.
3. For the GS-07: Specialized experience is one year at the GS-05 level, or equivalent, that has equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. Specialized experience is:

Work in a trainee capacity or other position where experience with basic investigative or analytical techniques and methods was applied to determine case resolution;

OR
One full year of graduate level education in a related field;

OR
Superior Academic Achievement based on a bachelors degree that is demonstrated through class standing (upper 1/3 of class), grade point average (2.95/4.0 overall or 3.5/4.0 in major); OR, election to membership in a qualifying national scholastic honor society. From the choices below, select the item that best describes your education and experience. You may qualify on a combination of education and experience. To combine education and experience, the total percentage of experience at the required grade level compared to the requirement, as well as the percentage of completed education compared to the requirement must equal at least 100 percent.

From the choices below, select the item that best describes your education and/or experience.
 A. I am qualifying based on a combination of education and experience. Together the percentage of experience and education as they relate to the requirement total at least 100 percent.
 B. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 level in the Federal Service.
 C. I possess a Bachelor’s degree plus Superior Academic Achievement.
 D. I possess at least one full year of graduate level education in a related field.
 E. I have been elected to membership in a qualifying national scholastic honor society.
 F. I do not meet the descriptions of required education and experience as described above.
4. Select the law enforcement activities below with which you have experience.
 A. Making arrests.
 B. Conducting physical surveillance.
 C. Conducting consensual monitoring or other electronic surveillance.
 D. Participating in the execution of search warrants.
 E. Participating in protection details.
 F. Participating in undercover operations.
 G. Drafting and serving subpoenas.
 H. Seizing and storing evidence.
 I. Presenting investigative results to the U.S. Attorneys Office or other state or local prosecutors for prosecutory determination.
 J. Conducting employee misconduct investigations.
 K. Conducting non-employee criminal investigations.
 L. Conducting bribery investigations.
 M. Testifying in court and/or administrative hearings.
 N. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. Do you have experience with the Privacy Act?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Do you have experience with the confidentiality provisions contained in section 6103 of the Internal Revenue Code?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Select all the following types of affidavits that you have written and submitted, sworn, and had approved, that resulted in arrests, seizures, indictments, or penalties.
 A. Search and seizure warrant affidavits.
 B. Criminal complaint affidavits.
 C. Arrest warrant affidavits.
 D. Civil Summons.
 E. Civil Seizures affidavits.
 F. None of the above.
8. Select the response that best describes your experience with law enforcement investigations related to multi-jurisdictional and multi-subject defendants.
 A. I have led teams involving multi-jurisdictional and multi-defendant cases on cases assigned to me.
 B. I was the case agent assigned to a multi-jurisdictional and multi-defendant case.
 C. I assisted with a multi-jurisdictional and multi-defendant case.
 D. I do not possess the above-described experience.
9. Choose the statement that best describes your experience.
 A. I have experience with investigative policies and procedures.
 B. I have participated in carrying out a variety of basic investigative assignments.
 C. I have experience applying methods to collect facts and assemble data, and applying those methods.
 D. I have experience analyzing data and drawing conclusions.
 E. I have assisted or conducted third party interviews.
 F. I have recorded information from informants or other sources of information.
 G. I have participated in the following activities: surveillance, dignitary protection, undercover operations, execution of search and arrest warrants and seizures.
 H. None of the above.
10. Select the choice that best describes your experience in handling demanding and stressful situations in an office environment.
 A. I have no experience handling stressful and demanding situations.
 B. I have dealt with occasional periods of mild stress as part of my regular job duties.
 C. As part of my regular job duties, I have dealt on a daily basis with moderate stress - e.g. handling heavy workloads.
 D. As part of my regular job duties, I have frequently dealt with highly stressful situations as the standard work environment - e.g. heavy workloads, tight deadlines, rapidly changing priorities, crisis situations.
11. Select the choice that best describes your experience in reporting to higher-level officials on program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.
 A. I have no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have reported primarily to my immediate supervisor, either formally or informally, on program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.
 C. I have given informal briefings to higher-level officials in the organization regarding program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.
 D. I have given formal written reports and oral briefings to higher-level officials both within and outside my organization regarding program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.
12. Indicate all of the following types of interpersonal communication experience you have performed.
 A. Briefed management/customers on policy changes.
 B. Defended recommendations on controversial issues.
 C. Facilitated coordination of efforts between organizational entities.
 D. Acted as technical representative.
 E. Served on panels, committees, or task forces on technical, programmatic, and/or professional issues.
 F. Regularly consulted by others on technical, programmatic, and/or professional issues.
 G. None of the above.
13. Select the response that reflects your experience dealing with others in difficult situations.
 A. I have dealt calmly with high stress volatile situations, or difficult, distressed people, while remaining professional and objective.
 B. I have been able to develop and maintain contact with individuals from diverse backgrounds, and engendered cooperation and, continuing associations to derive useful information.
 C. I have worked well in group settings and am able to deal effectively with individuals from diverse backgrounds. I am able to maintain composure and control in difficult situations.
 D. I have no experience dealing with others in difficult situations.
14. Select all of the verbal communication activities that you have experience performing.
 A. Conducting law enforcement interviews.
 B. Conducting civil enforcement interviews.
 C. Presenting investigative findings to Assistant U.S. Attorneys or other prosecutors.
 D. Presenting investigative status and other investigative matters to senior agency officials.
 E. Providing oral training presentations.
 F. Providing operational briefings to other members of a task force or raid team.
 G. Providing advice, guidance or direction to investigators of lower grades on regulations or procedures.
 H. Successfully negotiating for the acceptance of new policies and/or procedures.
 I. Serving as mediator in discussions between varying groups or individuals with opposing opinions and/or goals.
 J. Testify in court and/or administrative hearings.
 K. None of the above.
15. Select all of the written products below with which you have experience.
 A. Memoranda of Investigative Activities.
 B. Reports of Investigation.
 C. Investigative work plans.
 D. Administrative reports to management.
 E. Briefing papers for senior officials.
 F. Policy and procedures.
 G. Applications for subpoenas or summonses.
 H. Training presentations and other training material.
 I. None of the above.
16. Select the choice(s) that best describes your experience establishing and maintaining working relationships outside of the organization.
 A. I have no experience in performing this task. (
 B. I have provided routine information, resolved simple problems, questions, or complaints, and directed non-routine problems, questions, or complaints to the appropriate person/office.
 C. I have maintained relationships with members of other work units within my organization, assessed their needs, and provided information to them. I have resolved non-routine problems, questions, or complaints.
 D. I have developed and maintained relationships with individuals outside of my organization to achieve a common goal or resolve a problem.
17. Select all systems you have used to conduct investigations.
 A. FinCEN
 B. NCIC/NLETS/TECS
 C. IC3
 D. Consumer Sentinel
 E. PACER
 F. SPLUNK
 G. CLEAR/Accurint
 H. None of the above
18. Select the choice that best describes the extent to which you have gathered and analyzed facts/data, summarized the results and presented those results to Federal, State or local prosecuting authority.
 A. I have gathered data/information in preparation for analysis by others.
 B. I have gathered data/information, analyzed it, and summarized the results of my findings.
 C. I have gathered data/information, performed analyses, summarized results, and presented those results to a prosecuting authority.
 D. None of the above.
19. Please select the choice that best describes your ability to work on projects:
 A. While working on projects, I am self-motivated and resourceful. I frequently resolve problems with minimal guidance. In a group setting, I facilitate collaborative discussions, volunteer for assignments, ensure inclusiveness of varying perspectives, and develop innovative ideas to solve the problem.
 B. While working on projects, I take the initiative to resolve most problems with minimal guidance. I occasionally require additional guidance. In group settings, I participate and routinely contribute to discussions. The group leader assigns tasks that I complete timely without supervision.
 C. While working on projects, I am assigned tasks to complete under guidance of more experienced personnel. In group settings, I participate in discussions and sometimes contribute ideas. The group leader assigns me tasks to be completed under the supervision of others.
 D. I have limited experience working in group settings but I rarely need guidance to perform individual tasks.
 E. None of the above.
20. Select the choice that best describes your experience as a team leader coordinating the work of other team members based on priorities, requirements of the task, and capabilities of the members.
 A. I have no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had some periodic experience in assigning work as a team leader or an acting supervisor.
 C. I have had experience managing large program/project in assigning work to others and adjusting those assignments based on changing priorities and demonstrated skills of program/project members.
 D. I have experience as a supervisor in assigning program and project responsibilities to subordinate employees.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected