Position Title
Supervisory Human Resources Specialist (Employee Benefits)
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLAJ1DD-25-12767673-MPR1 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 17, 2025 to Sunday, July 27, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. .

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
2. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Whitehall, OH
 B. New Cumberland Defense Logistics Center, PA
3. Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) in the past 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Do you have a current (or last) performance rating of at least Fully Successful or the equivalent?
 A. Yes. I am a current Federal employee or have been within the previous 52 weeks and my most recent performance rating of record is at or above the Fully Successful or equivalent level.
 B. I am a current Federal employee but have not yet received a Federal performance rating.
 C. I am not a current Federal employee or have not been during the previous 52 weeks, therefore I do not possess a Federal performance rating.
 D. No. My performance rating is below the Fully Successful or equivalent.
6. This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement
Assessment 1
1. From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.

 A. I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Providing services for the Federal Employee Benefits Program including retirement plans, survivor benefits, health benefits, life insurance, and Thrift Savings Plan; Advising serviced employees on their benefits and providing answers to difficult questions that arise; Providing guidance to other specialists regarding benefits procedures; Assisting with difficult situations related to the Federal Employee Benefits program.
 B. I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.
In this part you will respond to questions about your experience as it relates to the position for which you are applying. For each task question, choose the level description that best describes your experience and/or training. Your responses must be fully supported within the text of your resume. Failure to properly identify your experience may result in the lowering of your overall score and/or your disqualification for this position.
2. This position requires the ability to correctly interpret and apply federal laws, rules, regulations, executive orders, and policies. From the following responses, please select the statement that most accurately reflects your experience with Human Resources (HR) laws and regulations:

 A. I have utilized standard operating procedures to perform work associated with Employee Benefits.
 B. I have been responsible for Benefits employees providing guidance to employees on HR laws and regulations.
 C. I have operational experience applying and advising managers on federal regulations and policies related to Federal Employee Benefits.
 D. I have completed formal training on applying HR laws and regulations.
 E. None of the above.
3. This position is responsible for managing the Employee Benefits Program. Please select the benefits program(s) that you have previously overseen on a regular and recurring basis. (Please select all that apply)

 A. Federal Employees' Health Benefits (FEHB) Program
 B. Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance (FEGLI) Program
 C. Thrift Savings Plan (TSP)
 D. Federal Employees Dental and Vision Program (FEDVIP)
 E. Federal Flexible Spending Account (FSAFEDS)
 F. Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS)
 G. Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)
 H. None of the above.
4. This position requires ensuring that subordinate employees are following procedures based on the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) requirements. Please select the statement that best describes your experience with OPM requirements.

 A. I have developed and implemented new procedures for the agency based on OPM requirements, laws, regulations, and guidance.
 B. I have followed OPM requirements and guidance when processing Federal Employee Benefits.
 C. I have received training on OPM requirements for Federal Employee Benefits.
 D. I have ensured that other employees are following OPM requirements, laws, regulations, and guidance when processing Federal Employee Benefits.
 E. None of the above.
5. Please select the statement that best describes your experience with program management of Federal Employee Benefits.

 A. I have completed work for the Employee Benefits Program in a timely manner in order to meet performance standards.
 B. I have tracked work of other employees to ensure that actions for Employee Benefits Program are processed in order to meet performance standards.
 C. I have managed Employee Benefits Program processes and identified improvements to enhance work flow and improve performance.
 D. None of the above.
6. Please select the statement that best reflects your level of experience as a Human Resources (HR) professional leading a group of HR Specialists:

 A. I have managed an organization of Federal HR specialists whose focus was in Federal Employee Benefits.
 B. I have served as a supervisor over a team of Federal HR Specialists whose focus was in Federal Employee Benefits.
 C. I have served as a supervisor over HR Specialists in any area of HR (e.g. Staffing, Classification, Employee/Labor Relations).
 D. I have served as a team leader over HR Specialists in any area of HR.
 E. None of the above.
7. Work requires the review and analysis of audit reports and audit findings/recommendations to identify additional areas for review, deficiencies, or adverse trends; training needs, and corrective strategies including developing new work methods, processes, procedures and associated documents, and/or updating current processes and/or procedures documents. Please select the response below that most accurately describes your experience level.
 A. I have knowledge of the audit readiness program.
 B. I have experience reviewing different reports and preparing strategies for improvement.
 C. I have operational experience with an audit readiness program to include identifying areas that need corrective process improvements and developing strategies to accomplish.
 D. None of the above.
8. This position will participate in cross-office/multi-functional tasks with researching and resolving highly complex and interrelated HR vulnerabilities, often requiring extensive probing and analysis to accurately identify the scope of the issue. From the list below, please select your level of experience.

 A. I have identified a procedural problem and worked out a solution with a senior specialist.
 B. I have trained and advised other HR specialists to remedy complex issues.
 C. I have independently identified the problem and resolved all issues.
 D. None of the above.
9. Incumbents will participate in specific projects and are often called upon to develop new initiatives to improve production and increase the quality of work. Please select the statement that most accurately reflects your experience:

 A. I have provided analysis and advice on new or existing HR programs, processes, and/or systems influencing decisions on establishing process changes or development of new systems or procedures
 B. I have provided direct support to management in the implementation of new HR products or services/initiatives.
 C. I have prepared for a review to examine HR processes and procedures by an internal or external reviewer.
 D. I have experience evaluating/measuring the overall impact of changes to an existing process.
 E. None of the above.
10. In this position, you will be called upon to advise management, develop formal reports, and mentor staff. Experience which demonstrates the ability to effectively communicate, both orally and in writing, is critical to this position. (Select all that apply)
 A. I have influenced decisions that resulted in policy and/or established processes for new or existing HR programs, processes and/or systems.
 B. I have authored an analysis that clearly considered and documented the impact on other HR programs and systems within the organization.
 C. I have led or provided direct support to management in negotiating the implementation of new HR products or processes and/or systems.
 D. I have performed as an instructor (formal or on-the-job) for one or more HR related courses.
 E. I have served in a project management role in implementing one or more HR initiatives.
 F. I have led or facilitated the development and automation of an HR product, tool or process used to deliver products or services.
 G. I have experience evaluating/measuring the overall impact and return on investment achieved through the implementation of reengineered products, services, and/or automation.
 H. None of the above.
11. From the following responses, please select the statement that most accurately reflects your experience with written communication:

 A. I wrote reports and briefings for HR managers whose purpose was to educate and provide guidance. The written materials were within HR technical expertise.
 B. I worked as part of a group developing briefs or written correspondence for others. The written materials were technical in nature and were within HR technical expertise.
 C. I independently prepared letters and memorandums for managers. The purpose of the written material was to provide routine guidance.
 D. I had final approval authority on reports and briefings for managers whose purpose was to recommend a specific strategy or course of action. The written materials were within HR technical expertise.
 E. None of the above.
12. From the following responses, please select the statement that most accurately reflects your experience in advising customers and management in regards to Federal Employee Benefits:

 A. I have advised customers and management on questions associated with Federal Employee Benefits.
 B. I have overseen an organization that advises customers and management on sensitive HR issues associated with Federal Employee Benefits.
 C. I have assisted in providing answers to questions from customers associated with Federal Employee Benefits.
 D. I have advised customers on questions associated with Federal Employee Benefits.
 E. None of the above.
13. From the list below, select the response which corresponds to the highest level of education you have achieved. Education claimed may be verified upon selection. If you do not possess or unable to provide proof of education claimed, you may be found ineligible.

 A. Less than 2 Years of College
 B. Associate’s Degree OR Two Years College (successfully completed at least 60 semester or 90 quarter hours)
 C. Bachelor’s Degree OR Four Years College (successfully completed at least 120 semester or 180 quarter hours)
 D. Master’s Degree OR Above
14. Have you received an honorary or monetary award from your employer (government civilian, military, or private sector) during the last 3 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected