Position Title
Machinist
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERE250195008022HW Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 21, 2025 to Monday, September 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Marietta, OH
 B. Pittsburgh, PA
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Machinist position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
1. From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Machinist duties without more than normal supervision.

 A. I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Machinist duties. I am skilled in manufacture parts and complete items of equipment from raw stock of different kind of metals and metal alloys and other materials, and performs machining work required in the manufacture of castings, forgings, weldments, and other fabrications. Carries-out assignments which require special adaption and extension of the use of conventional machine tools and the use of specialized and non-conventional machine tools such as jig borers, jib grinders, hobbing, machines, hob grinders, gear generators, and numerically controlled machine tools. Plans and lays out work, sets up and operates machine tools, and performs bench and assembly work. Performs precision handwork. Involves more exacting dimensions. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 B. I have the ability to perform the full range of Machinist duties. I am skilled in manufacture parts and complete items of equipment from raw stock of different kind of metals and metal alloys and other materials, and performs machining work required in the manufacture of castings, forgings, weldments, and other fabrications. Carries-out assignments which require special adaption and extension of the use of conventional machine tools and the use of specialized and non-conventional machine tools such as jig borers, jib grinders, hobbing, machines, hob grinders, gear generators, and numerically controlled machine tools. Plans and lays out work, sets up and operates machine tools, and performs bench and assembly work. Performs precision handwork. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 C. I have the ability to perform common Machinist duties. I can manufacture parts and complete items of equipment from raw stock of different kind of metals and metal alloys and other materials, and performs machining work required in the manufacture of castings, forgings, weldments, and other fabrications. Carries-out assignments which require special adaption and extension of the use of conventional machine tools and the use of specialized and non-conventional machine tools such as jig borers, jib grinders, hobbing, machines, hob grinders, gear generators, and numerically controlled machine tools. Plans and lays out work, sets up and operates machine tools, and performs bench and assembly work. Performs precision handwork. I work under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 D. I have the ability to perform simple Machinist duties and I have received training on manufacture parts and complete items of equipment from raw stock of different kind of metals and metal alloys and other materials, and performs machining work required in the manufacture of castings, forgings, weldments, and other fabrications. Carries-out assignments which require special adaption and extension of the use of conventional machine tools and the use of specialized and non-conventional machine tools such as jig borers, jib grinders, hobbing, machines, hob grinders, gear generators, and numerically controlled machine tools. Plans and lays out work, sets up and operates machine tools, and performs bench and assembly work.
 E. I do not possess the abilities described above.
2. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected