Position Title
Training Instructor (Law Enforcement) (Reemployed Annuitant & ICTAP eligibles)
Agency
U.S. Secret Service
Announcement Number
TNG-BS-12780837-25-RA Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 20, 2025 to Tuesday, August 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former Federal civilian employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm the following:  
Located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; and
Applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which will be or were separated; and
Applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which will be or were separated; and
Last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify eligibility, you must submit:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, notice of (proposed) removal for declining a directed geographic relocation outside the local commuting area (e.g., a directed reassignment or a change in duty station), notice of compensable work-related injury or illness termination and agency certification of inability to place, or notice of disability annuity termination; AND
SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), that reflects all of the following:
Position, grade level (GS-15 or below), and duty location; and
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is "1" or "2" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34), or excepted service without time limit (Position Occupied is "2" in block 34) who is covered by a law providing both noncompetitive appointment eligibility to, and selection priority for, competitive service positions.
Any documentation from agency that shows current promotion potential; AND
Latest performance appraisal including rating.
For more information, review Career Transition (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a retiree of the Federal Employee Retirement System (FERS) or Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS), receiving a federal annuity, who is eligible for re-employment as a federal annuitant?

To verify eligibility as a Federal Employee Retirement System (FERS) or Civil Service Retirement System eligible, you must submit your retirement Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following:
Retirement (Block-5B); and
Reflects the highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the retirement SF-50)
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Beltsville, MD
2. Would you accept a term appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
All applicants must complete the following section. This section will be used to determine your ability and willingness to accept certain conditions of employment or meet certain requirements of the position. Please respond 'Yes' or 'No' to the following statements. Failure to respond to this section will result in an ineligible rating.
All applicants must undergo a comprehensive background investigation. The background investigation focuses on your honesty, reliability, police record, financial record, use of alcohol and drugs, mental health, and employment record. The background investigation includes interviews with your past and present employers, neighbors, teachers, and references, as well as checks of law enforcement, credit, educational, medical, and other records.
1. I understand that if I am granted a Top Secret security clearance, I will be subjected to a continuous evaluation and background investigation every five years as part of the process used to update my clearance.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF-50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. If I receive a conditional offer of employment, I am willing to undergo a pre-employment drug screening.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I certify that I read and understand the U.S. Secret Service Applicant Drug Policy Statement and meet the guidelines at the time of application. (The link to the policy is located under the Qualifications section of the job opportunity announcement.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Have you held or are you currently appointed as a reemployed annuitant with ANY Department of Homeland Security (DHS) component? If "YES", please provide a Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, documenting your current/previous reemployed annuitant appointment with your application package.

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a Federal Employee Retirement System (FERS) or Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) retiree, receiving a federal annuity of the US Secret Service? Please provide, with your application package, a Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, documenting your retirement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a Federal Employee Retirement System (FERS) or Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) retiree, receiving a federal annuity from any other agency in the Federal Government? Please type yes or no and include name of the agency in the text box. Also, please provide, with your application package, a Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, documenting your retirement.
(limit 30 characters)
8. This position requires Occasional Travel.  Are you willing to travel?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Do you understand that you must be able to obtain and maintain Training Instructor Certification within 12 months of appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Recruiter ID Number: If you have one, please enter your recruiter's ID number. (Your recruiter would have supplied it to you). If you do not have one, please enter 0 (zero). (limit 7 characters)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Training Instructor (Law Enforcement) position with United States Secret Service. Your resume and the responses you provide to this Assessment Questionnaire will be used to determine if you are qualified for the position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1.

Applicants MUST meet one (1) of the below-listed Basic Requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position.


A. Education: Undergraduate and/or Graduate Education: Major study -- education or a subject area related to the position to be filled; OR
B. Specialized Experience: Experience that demonstrated a practical knowledge of the subject area of the position and of the methods and techniques of instruction. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include:
Teaching or instructing in an adult education program, secondary school, college, military installation, or industrial establishment in the appropriate field(s).
Supervising or administering a training program.
Development or review of training/course materials, aids, devices, etc., and evaluation of training results.
Work in the occupation or subject-matter field of the position to be filled that required training or instructing others on a regular basis.

NOTE: All applicants must clearly address this professional experience in their resume to be found qualified.

 A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A.
 B. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B.
 C. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B.
2. Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Law Enforcement Training Instructor at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience that exceeds the minimum qualifications for this position and demonstrates acceptable proficiency in all of the critical competencies required at the GS-11 which includes: Coordinating, developing, and instructing curriculum related to law enforcement for basic and in-service program areas; Coordinating with law enforcement agencies to determine current and future curriculum content; AND Communicating both orally and in writing to prepare reports and speak before work groups and/or diverse audiences. (NOTE: All applicants must clearly address this professional experience in their resume to be found qualified.)
 B. I do not possess the experience described above.
3. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected