Position Title
Procurement Analyst
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLATrpSpt-25-12754277-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, June 26, 2025 to Sunday, July 6, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. .

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and are applying a for a promotion?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).



 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and have held a position at or above the target grade for this position?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).


 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
are entitled to veterans preference?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
2. Do you have a current (or last) performance rating of at least Fully Successful or the equivalent?
 A. Yes. I am a current Federal employee or have been within the previous 52 weeks and my most recent performance rating of record is at or above the Fully Successful or equivalent level.
 B. I am a current Federal employee but have not yet received a Federal performance rating.
 C. I am not a current Federal employee or have not been during the previous 52 weeks, therefore I do not possess a Federal performance rating.
 D. No. My performance rating is below the Fully Successful or equivalent.
3. Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) in the past 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement
Assessment 1
1. The purpose of this next question is to verify that you meet the Basic DoD 1102 requirements for this position. Please select the best answer that fits your situation. FAILURE TO ANSWER THIS QUESTION WILL MAKE YOU INELIGIBLE.

 A. I have received a baccalaureate degree from an accredited educational institution authorized to grant baccalaureate degrees. Non-DLA serviced applicants must submit transcripts. DLA applicants should ensure transcripts are on file in eOPF.
 B. I am a current civilian employee in DoD or member of the Armed Forces, who occupied an 1102 position, contracting officer position, or comparable military contracting position with authority to award or administer contracts above the simplified acquisition threshold on or before September 30, 2000, are excluded from the requirements of A above.
 C. I do not possess the required education and/or experience to qualify for this position.
2. From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.

 A. I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Applying a broad range of contracting methods, concepts, governing regulations, principles, practices, policies, laws, precedents and guidelines governing the Procurement process, such as Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR); Applying analytical techniques and evaluation criteria to investigate, analyze and evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency of activities within the procurement process area; Recommending process improvements and corrective actions for complex procurement process problems; Preparing written communications, briefing materials, and reports of findings and recommendations, and presenting those findings and proposals.
 B. I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.
In this part you will respond to questions about your experience as it relates to the position for which you are applying. For each task question, choose the level description that best describes your experience and/or training. Your responses must be fully supported within the text of your resume. Failure to properly identify your experience may result in the lowering of your overall score and/or your disqualification for this position.
3. From the following responses, please select the statement that describes your level of experience involving monitoring and reviewing procurement/contracting process improvements:
 A. I have led a team to review procurement/contracting processes to identify needed improvements and recommend and implement changes.
 B. I routinely review procurement/contracting processes to identify needed improvements and recommend and implement changes.
 C. I routinely review procurement/contracting processes to identify needed improvements.
 D. I have reviewed procurement/contracting processes and recommended improvements for consideration.
 E. None of the above.
4. From the following responses, please select the statement that describes your level of experience with analyzing data:

 A. I have led a team to conduct data analysis to identify trends and develop recommendations to improve the Procurement process.
 B. As a regular part of my job, I perform data analysis to identify trends and develop recommendations to improve the Procurement process.
 C. As a regular part of my job, I perform data analysis.
 D. None of the above.
5. From the following responses, select the statement that describes your level of experience leading projects and making recommendations/decisions on a variety of Acquisition issues:

 A. I am considered an expert in leading teams to complete Acquisition projects.
 B. I have led a team to complete one or more Acquisition projects but was assisted by a senior analyst or Supervisor.
 C. I participated on a team for an Acquisition project but did not act as the leader.
 D. None of the above.
6. From the following responses, select the statement that describes your level of familiarity with complex DOD or DLA contracts and techniques of contracting operations:

 A. I am considered an expert on complex DOD or DLA contracts and techniques of contracting operations, serving as a key resource and advising other acquisition professionals.
 B. I have experience working on complex DOD or DLA contracts and techniques of contracting operations with little or no guidance.
 C. I have worked on complex DOD or DLA contracts and techniques of contracting operations with guidance.
 D. I have knowledge of complex DOD or DLA contracts and techniques of contracting operations.
 E. None of the above.
7. From the following responses, select all that apply:

 A. I have experience preparing training documents for procurement and contracting processes.
 B. I have experience preparing briefing materials for procurement and contracting processes.
 C. I have experience preparing reports and metrics for procurement and contracting processes.
 D. I have experience conducting briefings for procurement and contracting processes.
 E. I have experience conducting training for procurement and contracting processes.
 F. None of the above.
8. From the following responses, select the statement that describes your level of expertise as an analyst and advisor on procurement process improvement initiatives:
 A. I am an expert in analyzing procurement processes and recommending process improvements to senior level management.
 B. I have experience analyzing procurement processes and recommending process improvements to my team.
 C. I have minimal experience analyzing procurement processes and recommending process improvements.
 D. I do not have experience analyzing procurement processes and recommend changes.
9. From the following responses, please select the statement(s) identifying your experience related to Key Performance Indicators
(KPls) and metrics for the procurement process (Select all that apply):
 A. Evaluates proposals for improving KPls and metrics.
 B. Analyzes effectiveness of implemented proposals to improve KPls and metrics
 C. Identifies trends associated with KPl's.
 D. Communicates KPI performance and trends to leadership.
 E. Recognizes factors adversely affecting performance.
 F. Provides guidance needed to implement improvements to process performance.
 G. Recommends policy changes related to KPI metrics.
 H. None of the above.
10. From the following responses, please select the statement that describes your level of experience in dealing with procurement performance improvements:
 A. I have advised and assisted Process Owners and/or agency leadership in defining and developing procurement performance targets and long-range process improvement plans.
 B. I have proposed initiatives to Process Owners and/or agency leadership in developing new systems, processes or procedures in order to meet procurement performance targets and long-range process improvement plans.
 C. I have analyzed procurement performance and recommended process improvements to my supervisor.
 D. None of the above.
11. From the following responses, please select the statement(s) identifying the evaluation techniques used in order to review Procurement process effectiveness (Select all that apply):
 A. Identify process constraints.
 B. Comprehensive long-range program/process reviews.
 C. External feedback surveys.
 D. Analyze data from past, present and projected Procurement process activity.
 E. Customer and Supplier research.
 F. Develop cost benefit analysis.
 G. Policy analysis.
 H. None of the above.
12. From the following responses, please select the statement(s) identifying your experience with briefings and communications related to procurement {Select all that apply):
 A. Prepares written reports addressing complex issues for management briefings.
 B. Briefs and serves as the subject matter expert for procurement issues
 C. Prepares guidance needed to implement process/training improvements.
 D. Develops detailed reports containing concise findings and innovative recommendations.
 E. Participates in contracting planning conferences on behalf of the organization.
 F. None of the above.
13. From the following responses, select the statement that describes your experience conducting training sessions to various sized audiences:
 A. I have experience conducting training session to various sized audiences, including attendees from the Command.
 B. I have experience completing this task with a small group.
 C. I have experience completing this task as a mentor for one or two people at a time.
 D. None of the above.
14. From the following responses, select the statement that describes your experience briefing senior leadership:
 A. I have experience briefing senior leadership and various sized audiences at the Command level.
 B. I have experience completing this task at the Directorate level.
 C. I have experience completing this task at the Branch level.
 D. I do not have experience completing this task.
15. From the following list of communication functions, please select the statement(s) you have performed as part of your regular duties (Select all that apply):

 A. Prepare written documents to respond to an inquiry from Congress.
 B. Prepare written documents to support an acquisition strategy.
 C. Maintain well documented project files.
 D. Verbally explain a detailed process to an audience that knows very little on the subject matter.
 E. Prepare a briefing, including slides and speaking notes for a business conference.
 F. Present a briefing during a business conference.
 G. Verbally persuade a party to your viewpoint and encouraged action on their part.
 H. None of the above.
16. From the list below, select the response which corresponds to the highest level of education you have achieved. Education claimed may be verified upon selection. If you do not possess or are unable to provide proof of education claimed, you may be found ineligible.
 A. Below a Masters Degree
 B. Masters Degree OR Above
17. Have you received an honorary or monetary award from your employer (government civilian, military, or private sector) during the last 3 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected