Position Title
Clinical Laboratory Scientist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBST-12801176-25-SW Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 19, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
BASIC REQUIREMENTS:  To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements.  

NOTE: Non-certified applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for certification may be given a temporary appointment up to the full performance level not to exceed one year as a graduate Clinical Laboratory Scientist.  
Grandfathering Provision.  A Clinical Laboratory Scientist employed in VHA on the effective date of the qualification standard (12/03/2024) who did not meet all the basic requirements in this standard may not be promoted beyond the full performance level (GS-0644-11) or be newly placed in supervisory or managerial positions until meeting the full qualification requirements.
1. Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d)?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Education: Do you possess a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. I am a current VHA employee covered under the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation.
2a. Please provide the following information for your bachelor’s degree.

Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree:
Major/Program:
Month and Year Conferred:
3. Do you possess one of the following certificates?
Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT.
Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT.
Categorical certification or Specialist certification by ASCP or AMT.
NOTE: Categorical and specialist certifications are not acceptable for CLS Generalist positions or lab sections unrelated to the categorical or specialist certification held. Categorical or specialist certifications are acceptable for higher-graded positions within the relevant lab section or one of the non-section specific assignments (including, Ancillary Testing Coordinator, Education Coordinator, Laboratory Information Manager, Quality Manager, Laboratory Manager, Regional Technical Specialist, National Quality and Compliance Agent, Regional Program Manager, Regional Director, Laboratory Director, or National Quality and Compliance Officer).

Exception for non-certified applicants.
(a) Applicants who do not currently hold valid certification may be hired by VA and actively work toward their certification if they meet one of the four (4) routes identified in Appendix A that makes them eligible to take the MLS certification exam through the ASCP BOC or the MLS certification exam through AMT Certification Agency.
(b) Non-Certified applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for licensure may be given a temporary appointment CLS under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(c)(2).
(c) Non-Certified individuals may only provide care under the supervision of a certified CLS at or above the FPL.
(d) Non-certified individuals may only be appointed at the entry level and may not be promoted/converted until certification is obtained.
(e) Temporary appointments of non-certified CLS may not be extended beyond two (2) years or be converted to a new temporary appointment.
 A. I meet one of the certification requirements above.
 B. . I meet this requirement by being covered under the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation). (REQUIRED: PLEASE SUBMIT NON-AWARD "SF-50" FOR CURRENT OR FORMER FEDERAL EMPLOYEES)
 C. I meet the exception for non-certified applicants and understand I can only be brought on as a temporary appointment at the GS-07 entry level.
 D. None of the above.
3a. Please provide your certification information. If you are not certified and do not expect to become certified within a year indicate N/A. Otherwise, indicate:

Type of Certification(s):
Certification number(s):
Certified/Expected Certification Date:
Accrediting Body:
GRADE REQUIREMENTS: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, you must also meet the grade requirements for the grade(s) of the position for which you wish to be considered.
4. GS-07 Clinical Laboratory Scientist: Experience or Education. Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:
- Experience. None beyond the basic requirements.
- Education. A bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university.
 A. I possess the education (as outlined in Question 2 above) and certification (as outlined in Question 3 above) and experience requirements as listed above.
 B. I possess the education (as outlined in Question 2 above), and I meet the exception for non-certified applicants (as outlined in Question 3), and experience requirements as listed above. I understand I can only be brought on as a temporary appointment at the GS-07 entry level.
 C. None of the above.
5. GS-09 Clinical Laboratory Scientist: Experience or Education. Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:
Experience. One (1) year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower (GS-07) grade. OR
Education. Master's degree or two (2) academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in medical technology or a directly related science.
In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs):
Knowledge of policies and procedures of clinical laboratory testing.
Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance principles.
Knowledge of laboratory equipment and routine maintenance.
Ability to work as a team member and effectively complete assignments.
Ability to read and interpret written instructions.
Ability to accurately perform pre-analytical, analytical, and post-analytical phases of testing
Please select the following answer that best describes your level of experience or education.
 A. I possess one (1) year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower (GS-07) grade level, and my resume demonstrates the above KSAs.
 B. I possess a Master’s degree or two (2) academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in medical technology or a directly related science, and my resume demonstrates the above KSAs.
 C. No, I do not possess creditable experience or higher-level education reflected in answers A and B, and my resume does not demonstrate the above KSAs.
5a. If you selected B, provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your master's degree or completed two (2) academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education. (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED) Otherwise indicate "N/A".

Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree:
Major/Program:
Date Conferred:
6. GS-11 Clinical Laboratory Scientist: Experience or Education. Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:
Experience. One (1) year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower (GS-09) grade level. OR
Education. Must have three (3) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education, or a Ph.D., or equivalent doctoral degree, in medical technology or a directly-related science.
In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs):
Knowledge of professional clinical laboratory science principles, practices, concepts, and theories that support sound, independent work.
Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance procedures and principles of performance improvement.
Skill in informatics, laboratory data flow, and laboratory processes.
Ability to maintain, troubleshoot, and repair instrumentation.
Ability to use independent technical judgment to analyze and interpret laboratory results.
Ability to read, interpret, and apply complex written instructions.
Ability to communicate, consult, and interact with other members of the health care team, external relations, customer service, and patient education.
Please select the following answer that best describes your level of experience or education.
 A. I possess one (1) year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower (GS-09) grade level, and my resume demonstrates the above KSAs.
 B. I possess three (3) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education, or a Ph.D., or equivalent doctoral degree, in medical technology or a directly related science and my resume demonstrates the above KSAs. (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 C. No, I do not possess creditable experience or higher-level education reflected in answers A and B, and my resume does not demonstrate the above KSAs.
6a. If you selected B, provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your three (3) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education, or a Ph.D., or equivalent doctoral degree, in medical technology or a directly related science. (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED) Otherwise indicate "N/A".

Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree:
Major/Program:
Date Conferred:
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected