Position Title
Blocker and Bracer
Agency
U.S. Army Joint Munitions Command
Announcement Number
MCGL-26-12813511-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 8, 2025 to Thursday, October 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position requires the incumbent be able to obtain and maintain a determination of eligibility for a Secret security clearance or access for the duration of employment. A background investigation and credit check are required. Are you willing to undergo pre-employment and recurring investigations to obtain and maintain a Secret clearance as required?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 Yes
 No


3.
The duties of this position meet the criteria for compliance with Federal and Department of the Army Drug Free Workplace Programs. Detection of the presence of drugs is warranted. This position is subject to a pre-employment screening, and random testing thereafter, to include testing based on reasonable suspicion and testing due to direct involvement with an on-duty accident. Are you willing to refrain from the use of illegal drugs and submit to a pre-employment drug screening and random testing thereafter to obtain and maintain employment in this position?
 Yes
 No


4.
This position is subject to the provisions of the Domestic Violence Offender Gun Ban commonly referred to as the Lautenberg Amendment. This act bans individuals convicted of misdemeanor domestic violence and certain others from possession or access to firearms or ammunition. (False or fraudulent information provided by candidates is criminally punishable by fine or imprisonment per 18 U.S.C. Section 1001). Are you willing and able to obtain and maintain eligibility for this position based on the provisions of the Lautenberg Amendment?
 Yes
 No


5.
This position Performs duties which involve the control, accountability and shipment of arms, ammunition and explosives (AA&E). Incumbent must maintain AA&E Security Certification/Screening IAW AR 190-11. Are you willing to maintain AA&E Security Certification/Screening?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Blocker and Bracer position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Blocker and Bracer duties without more than normal supervision.

 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex duties securing ammunition or other hazardous cargo by constructing and installing boxes, wooden blocks, braces, wedges, and gates for loading inside or upon, box and flat rail cars, vans, trucks, and other conveyances. I am skilled in determining measurements needed for cargo before construction and during installation, locating and conducting pre-shipment inspections and loaded hazardous cargo such as ammunition and other components identified for shipment using material handling equipment such as electrical, gasoline, or diesel-powered forklifts. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range duties securing ammunition or other hazardous cargo by constructing and installing boxes, wooden blocks, braces, wedges, and gates for loading inside or upon, box and flat rail cars, vans, trucks, and other conveyances. I am skilled in determining measurements needed for cargo before construction and during installation, locating and conducting pre-shipment inspections and loaded hazardous cargo such as ammunition and other components identified for shipment using material handling equipment such as electrical, gasoline, or diesel-powered forklifts. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common duties such as constructing and installing wooden blocks, wedges, gates, braces, and other staying devices to separate and secure crated and boxed items inside or upon box cars, flat cars, vans, trucks, or other conveyances which have level floors, straight sides, and no odd-shaped or curved overhead areas, framework, or obstacles protruding into the cargo area. I can tie down, block and secure cargo. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple duties such as installing wooden blocks, wedges, gates, braces, and other staying devices to separate and secure crated and boxed items.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙