Position Title
Community Recreation Director
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
GTMO-25-12782415 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 14, 2025 to Thursday, August 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Supervisory Recreation Specialist/Community Recreation Director position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
1. Do you possess a four-year undergraduate degree in Recreation or three years of comparable experience that illustrates a progression in recreation management?
 A. YES, I possess a four-year undergraduate degree in Recreation or three years of comparable experience that illustrates a progression in recreation management
 B. I possess a combination of education and experience comparable to a four-year undergraduate degree in Recreation management.
 C. I do not possess a degree or experience in recreation management.
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
2. What is your experience managing/supervising a recreation program?
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
3. Do you perform regular analysis of projects and programs; considering operating budget, staffing requirements, plans, trends, command mission and changing population?
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. This position is subject to irregular tour, which may include weekends, holidays, and evening work. Will you be able to work based on this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Do you have the ability to communicate effectively in English, both orally and in writing, and possess strong interpersonal communication skills?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Do you have a current First Aid, CPR, and AED Certifications? Please note, must attach proof of certification with application package.
 A. YES
 B. NO
7. Do you have a valid state license? If Selected for an interview, you will be required to furnish proof of possession of a valid state driver's license at time of interview.
 A. YES
 B. NO
For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.
8. What is your experience level in regards to Event Planning/Programming within a recreational program? (Resume must back up your responses.)
 A. I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 B. I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 C. I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 D. I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 E. I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.
9. I have performed the following personnel/management functions:
 
Coached and mentored or discipline employees who achieve desired results. Established work schedules and worksite assignments
Created criteria for hiring new personnel.
Followed up with employees to assure timeliness in meeting milestones.
Evaluated effectiveness of completed assignments or projects
 A. I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 B. I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 C. I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 D. I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 E. I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected