Position Title
Emergency Management Specialist (Response)
Agency
Federal Emergency Management Agency
Announcement Number
FEMA-AH-12778000-CORE Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, August 12, 2025 to Tuesday, August 19, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) employee?

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a FEMA SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action. We recommend submitting your last promotion SF-50, current SF-50, or within-grade increase SF-50.  Award SF-50's do not include all the required information and will not be accepted.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. How did you hear about this Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) job opportunity?
 A. USAJOBS
 B. FEMA's Social Media (Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Online Job board (Indeed, Zip Recruiter, etc.)
 D. FEMA.gov Careers Website
 E. FEMA Virtual Hiring Event
 F. FEMA On-Site Hiring Event
 G. College/University/Alumni Organization
 H. FEMA Employee Referral
 I. Other
3. Are you a retiree receiving a federal annuity (either military or civilian)? Or have you accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years? (Select all that apply.)
 A. Yes, I'm receiving a military annuity.
 B. Yes, I'm receiving a civilian annuity.
 C. Yes, I've received a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
 D. No, I am not receiving a federal annuity and have not accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
4. Are you a current FEMA employee?
 A. I'm a current FEMA Local Hire Employee
 B. I'm a current FEMA Reservist Employee
 C. I'm a current FEMA CORE Employee
 D. I'm a current FEMA PFT Employee
 E. I'm a current FEMA Senior Executive Service Employee
 F. I'm not a current FEMA Employee
5. Are you currently serving, or have served within the last five years, as a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) employee in the Executive Branch?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Please provide the following information regarding your political appointment(s): 1. Official Title of Position; 2. Type of Appointment (i.e. Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career SES); 3. Name of Agency; 4. Date Position began; and 5. Date Position ended. (NOTE: If you have never held a political appointment, please enter N/A.)
7. Within the past five years, have you received a buyout or payment through the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment Authority (VSIP) when separating from a federal position?
 A. No
 B. Yes, and I understand candidates who are reemployed with the federal government within five years after receiving a buyout or payment under VSIP are required to repay the entire amount of the incentive prior to their onboarding date.
8. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?

Select "Not Applicable" if this question does not apply to you.
 A. Yes
 B. No, but I have an exemption
 C. I am a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, and have NOT registered with the Selective Service System and do NOT have an exemption.
 D. Not Applicable
2. All FEMA employees are subject to 24-hour on-call in the event of an emergency and all Federal employees may be subject to emergency deployment. In the event of an emergency deployment, travel requirements may be extensive in nature (weeks to months), with little advance notice, and may require relocation to emergency sites, some of which are quite austere. The length of deployment may last anywhere from days to months, depending upon the nature of the emergency or disaster.

Every FEMA employee is considered an emergency manager and each employee has regular and recurring emergency management responsibilities, although not every position requires routine deployment to disaster sites. Your emergency management duties may vary depending on the needs of the Agency, your particular skills, and certain personal circumstances. All positions may require irregular work hours, work at locations other than the official duty station, and may include duties other than those specified in the employee's official position description.

Are you able to meet this commitment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

In order to be hired for this position, applicants must undergo and successfully pass a background investigation. This may include a review of financial issues, such as delinquency, child support and/or tax obligations, as well as certain criminal offenses and illegal use of or possession of drugs.

Are you willing to undergo a background investigation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. Grade 12: Do you have one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the GS-11 level, as described in the vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Please indicate where and when you obtained each of the specialized experience requirements listed in the Qualifications section of this Job Opportunity Announcement. Include in your response: (1) the area of specialized experience; (2) the place of employment; and, (3) the specific dates of employment the experience was gained in MM/DD/YYYY - MM/DD/YYYY format. Your response must be supported by your resume.

Example: Experience in developing and delivering presentations and training; ABC Company; 10/01/2016 - 05/15/2018. (limit 500 characters)
3. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) the steps you have taken in developing a plan for an emergency or emergency management situation.
 A. I have researched information to determine current state.
 B. I have identified a group of stakeholders to build the plan.
 C. I have led the analysis of information to determine various courses of action.
 D. I have developed a concept of operations (COOP).
 E. I have participated in plan development.
 F. I have led plan development.
 G. I have evaluated the effectiveness of plans.
 H. None of the above.
4. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) the roles you have had in developing emergency management plans.
 A. I have led the development of emergency management plans (e.g., All-Hazards Plans, Concept of Operations Plans [COOP]).
 B. I have led the development of incident action plans.
 C. I have coordinated with Federal, State, local, tribal, and/or territorial stakeholders to reconcile differences in emergency plans.
 D. I have reviewed emergency management plans.
 E. I have evaluated the effectiveness of emergency management plans.
 F. I have led a team that developed emergency management plans.
 G. I have worked with other planning partners to establish the planning scenario.
 H. None of the above.
5. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience interpreting emergency management policies to develop operational plans.
 A. I have assessed challenges associated with applying Federal, State, local, tribal, and/or territorial emergency management policies into operational plans.
 B. I have provided feedback to senior leaders on the challenges of applying emergency management policies to an operational plan.
 C. I have provided recommendations to changes in emergency management policies based on feedback received from Federal, State, local, tribal, and/or territorial partners ability to develop operational plans.
 D. I have interpreted emergency management policy to provide guidance to Federal, State, local, tribal, and/or territorial stakeholders.
 E. None of the above.
6. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience in executing plans.
 A. I have coordinated with others to build training based on operational plans.
 B. I have coordinated with others to build exercises based on operational plans.
 C. I have provided recommendations to improve plans based on results from exercises and/or operations.
 D. I have coordinated with Federal, State, local, tribal, and/or territorial stakeholders to execute the plan.
 E. I have served on a team that has conducted a high-level review on the execution of emergency management response plans.
 F. None of the above.
7. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your knowledge of Federal, State, or local government structures, organizations, and functions as they relate to disaster response.
 A. I have worked in an emergency operations center or similar operations centers (e.g., command post, base camp) where duties required the collection and analysis of information to maximize response resource allocation.
 B. I have coordinated with State Emergency Operations Centers.
 C. I have interfaced with other operations centers or command centers during disaster response.
 D. I have served in a position of authority to interface with other operations centers, command centers, intelligence and law enforcement agencies, or other critical organizations to accomplish emergency response.
 E. I have applied the National Response Framework principles (e.g., NIMS/ICS).
 F. I have worked in an operational environment with constantly changing requirements that made it necessary for me to change a course of action.
 G. I have worked in a high stress environment that required me to make decisions that impacted emergency response operations.
 H. None of the above.
8. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience in providing written documents.
 A. I have worked with technical experts to gather information for reports and/or briefings.
 B. I have developed operational summaries and after action reports.
 C. I have developed reports that have been used by senior leadership to inform decisions.
 D. I have written operational plans (e.g., incident action plans, all hazards plans).
 E. I have written summary reports that summarize emergency management operating practices.
 F. I have written reports that have been disseminated across my organization.
 G. I have written reports that have provided guidance to external partners (e.g., those outside of my organization).
 H. I have developed situational awareness reports.
 I. I have produced intelligence reports.
 J. None of the above.
9. From the list below, select the responsibilities that you have performed as part of multiple graphics and design projects (Check all that apply):
 A. I have analyzed and interpreted customer requirements in order to develop vague or broad subject matter into recommended graphics and design information products.
 B. I have advised customers on technical advantages and disadvantages of various formats, styles, media, and methods or reproduction and suggested those that could best be used in developing the desired visual objectives of projects.
 C. I have prepared original plans and design concepts.
 D. I have solicited customer feedback on proposed design concepts.
 E. I have produced final graphics and design products.
 F. None of the above.
10. Please take this opportunity to review your question responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you understand this statement, have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected