Position Title
Nurse
Agency
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
Announcement Number
CMS-CMMI-25-12774802-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, August 26, 2025 to Tuesday, September 2, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP):
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Health and Human Services? If yes, confirm:
     • you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
     • you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
     • you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
     • your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit the following documents at the time of application: (1) Documentation showing abolishment of position or separation (i.e., Certificate of Expected Separation (CES), Agency certification that you are in a surplus organization or occupation, Notice that your position is being abolished, Letter stating you are eligible for discontinued service retirement, Specific Reduction-in-Force separation notice, OR Notice of proposed removal because you declined a directed reassignment or transfer of function out of the local commuting area); (2) Your latest performance rating showing a rating of at least "fully successful" (level 3); AND (3) Your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), or equivalent personnel action showing your tenure, position occupied, and duty station.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP):
Are you a current career or career-conditional competitive service employee or a former career competitive service employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the Department of Health and Human Services? If yes, confirm:
     • you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
     • you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
     • you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
     • your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit the following documents at the time of application: (1) Proof of Eligibility (Reduction-in-Force separation notice, Notice of proposed removal for failure to relocate, notice of injury compensation termination, OR notice of disability annuity termination); (2) Your latest performance rating showing a rating of at least "fully successful" (level 3); AND (3) Your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), or equivalent personnel action, showing your tenure, position occupied, and duty station. NOTE: Your proof of eligibility must be dated within a year of the date of your application in order to meet ICTAP eligibility.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Woodlawn, MD
 C. New York, NY
2. If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Not Applicable
3. In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form (SF) 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 A. Yes, I have held one or more of these appointment types in the past five years.
 B. No, I have not held any of these appointment types in the past five years.
 C. I am unsure if I have held any of these appointment types in the past five years.
4. Select the response or responses that best describe how you heard about this position INITIALLY or the VERY FIRST TIME YOU ENCOUNTERED CMS? This question is only designed to assist with recruitment planning efforts.
 A. LinkedIn
 B. Handshake
 C. Symplicity
 D. Twitter
 E. YouTube
 F. Job Board (Indeed/Glassdoor/Monster, etc.) – Please specify the Job Board in the text box below.
 G. College/University Event – Please specify the Recruitment Event in the text box below.
 H. Career Fair (Specialty field, Veterans, Individuals with Disabilities, etc.) – Please specify the Career Fair in the text box below.
 I. Professional Organization Job board or event – Please specify the organization in the text box below.
 J. CMS Hosted Webinar – Please specify the Webinar Topic in the text box below.
 K. Friend/Family Member/CMS Employee
 L. CMS Website
 M. USAJOBS or USAJOBS Email Notification
5. Please provide the specifics about how you heard about this vacancy announcement. For example - where exactly did you hear of this position; which job fair did you interact with CMS; if it was word of mouth, who did you hear it from, etc? Enter N/A if "Not Applicable".
6. If you are a Federal Civilian employee, under what type of appointment are you currently serving?
 A. Career Appointment, Competitive Service
 B. Career-Conditional Appointment, Competitive Service
 C. Career Appointment, Excepted Service
 D. Career-Conditional Appointment, Excepted Service
 E. Term Appointment (Time-Limited not to exceed more than 1 year, not more than 4 years)
 F. Temporary Appointment (Time-Limited not to exceed 1 year or less)
 G. Pathways Program (Internship, Recent Graduates, or Presidential Management Fellows)
 H. Other
 I. Not Applicable
7. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held on a permanent basis. For example: GS-12. (limit 10 characters). If not applicable, please enter N/A. (limit 10 characters)
8. If you are, or ever were, a Federal civilian employee, please indicate the dates of the highest graded position you held on a permanent basis, example: MM-YYYY to MM-YYYY, or to Present. If not applicable, please enter N/A. (limit 150 characters)
9. Are you a Federal civilian retirement annuitant? If yes, and you are selected for this position, your salary may be reduced by the gross amount of the Federal annuity paid during the period of re-employment. Please click here for more information about retired annuitants.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Have you accepted a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) from a Federal agency within the past 5 years? If yes, and you are selected for this position, you must repay the entire (pre-tax) amount of the incentive to the agency which paid the buyout before your first day of work in the new position. Please click here for more information about VSIP.
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. When the agency completes their selections, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with additional federal agencies. Please opt-in here if you would like your name, application material, and assessment results shared to be considered for employment with additional agencies. There is no guarantee of further consideration and you can continue to explore job opportunity announcements.
 A. Opt In: Please share my name, application material, and assessment results with hiring managers from other agencies.
 B. Opt Out: I only want to be considered within the agency I am applying for.
Conditions of Employment
1. In accordance with Executive Order (EO) 12964 and the Department of Health & Human Services (HHS) Federal Drug-Free Workplace Program governed by EO 12564, Federal employees MUST refrain from the use of ALL illegal drugs both on and off duty.

Marijuana use in any form (including medicinal), could deem a person unsuitable for Federal employment. State laws do not supersede Federal law.
Therefore, Federal employees MUST refrain from use of ALL illegal drugs (to include marijuana) on and off duty, even when residing in a state where marijuana use has been legalized for medicinal or recreational purposes.

Do you agree to refrain from all illegal drug use (to include but not limited to medicinal and recreational marijuana) if you are selected for Federal employment?
 A. Yes, I agree to refrain from all illegal drug use (to include but not limited to medicinal and recreational marijuana) if selected for Federal employment.
 B. No, I do not agree to refrain from all illegal drug use if selected for Federal employment.
Merit Hiring Plan Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for applying for the position of Nurse, GS-0610-13, with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application. ***Be sure to read the announcement in its entirety for all application requirements. You MUST upload ALL required documents, including your Nursing license or your application will not be considered***
1. The Nurse occupation has specific educational requirements which apply to all positions. From the options below, select the one response which best describes your educational background.

 A. I have a graduate or higher level degree; such as, a bachelor’s degree, an associate degree, or a diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program. The education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. **If the degree is from a Foreign Nursing School, an official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required. (NOTE: TRANSCRIPTS ARE REQUIRED BEFORE SELECTION)
 B. I do not possess the education described above.
2. The Nurse occupation has a license requirement which applies to all positions. From the options below, select the one response which best describes your licensure qualification requirements for a Nurse position.

 A. I have a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. (NOTE: License Is REQUIRED AT THE TIME OF APPLICATION) You may retrieve a copy of your license and upload from https://www.nursys.com/
 B. I do not possess the license requirements described above.
3. Select one statement from below that best describes your experience in order to meet the minimum qualification requirements for the position of the Nurse, GS-0610-13.

 A. I have at least one year (52 weeks) of qualifying specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Government, obtained in either the privat or public sector, to include: 1) Providing nursing consultation/advice to stakeholders on a variety of policy areas to improve the quality of healthcare services; 2) Developing healthcare program policies or regulations; AND 3) Preparing written materials (e.g. issues papers, briefing materials, manuals, reports, etc).
 B. I do not possess the experience described above. COMPETENCY: None
4. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, that my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731), or I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), I understand that any information I give may be investigated.

 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith. COMPETENCY: None
5. I certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position. I understand that evidence of copying and pasting directly from the vacancy announcement without clearly documenting supplemental information to describe my experience will result in an ineligible rating, and I will not receive further consideration.

 A. Yes, I certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected