Position Title
Registered Respiratory Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-12767949-25-TW-TEAMC Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 24, 2025 to Monday, August 4, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Registered Respiratory Therapist vacancy with the Washington DC Veterans Affairs Medical Center. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Appendix G76, requires that applicants meet the following basic requirements.
Basic Requirements:

The following are the basic requirements for appointment as an Registered Respiratory Therapist in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA).
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Education.

Individuals must have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care (CoARC) or its successor.

Do you have the required education as stated above?


NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Licensure.

Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT


Do you meet the licensure required as stated above?

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Credential.

Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a valid, current, unrestricted credential of RRT.

Do you have a valid current, unrestricted credential as stated above?


(1) Exception. RT positions will be designated only to individuals who are in the process of obtaining credentials to become an RRT. These individuals will only be hired on a temporary appointment as provided below.

(a) VHA may waive the RRT credential requirement for persons who are otherwise qualified and pending completion of prerequisites for RRT credential. Individuals who have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor, acquired the CRT credential, are fully licensed by their state and are working toward completion of their RRT credential may be given a temporary appointment as an RT. The temporary appointment is made under the authority of 38 U.S.C. ? 7401(a)(1)(B) for a period not to exceed one year from date of employment. Candidates must hold an active, current, full and unrestricted RRT credential and be licensed to hold a position at or above the GS-07 level.

(b) RTs may only be temporarily appointed at the GS-05 level and may not be promoted/converted to a higher-level position as an RRT until the RRT credential is received.

(c) RTs must provide care only under the close supervision of an RRT.

(d) Temporary RT appointments may not be extended beyond one year or converted to a new temporary appointment.

(e) Failure to Obtain Credential.

In all cases, RTs must actively pursue meeting national prerequisites for the RRT credential from the first day of their appointment. Failure to become credentialed within one year from date of appointment will result in removal from the GS-0601 RT series and may result in termination of employment. The Human Resources (HR) Office staff will provide RTs, in writing, the requirement to 1) obtain their RRT credential; 2) the date by which the RRT credential must be acquired; and 3) the consequences for not becoming RRT credentialed by the deadline. The HR Office staff must provide the written notice to selectees prior to entrance on duty date and maintain a copy in the electronic Official Personnel Folder.

(2) Loss of Licensure, Certification or Credentials.

An employee in this occupation, who fails to maintain the required certifications, RRT credential or license must be removed from the occupation, which may also result in the termination of employment. Once credentialed, licensed or certified, RTs/RRTs must maintain a full, valid and unrestricted license, credential and certification to practice respiratory care.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Physical Standards.

Work is primarily performed in environmentally controlled inpatient and outpatient care areas. Walking and standing for extended periods required. Must be able to physically access all areas of service. Pushing and pulling equipment up to seventy pounds, moving and lifting supplies, lifting, bending, stooping, and exposure to body fluid is involved. This position has been evaluated as a Level 1 in accordance with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) definition of occupational exposure to blood borne pathogens. Level 1 positions in this category require the performance of tasks that are exposed to blood and potentially infectious body fluids.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. English Language Proficiency.

All applicants must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), and 7407(d).


Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
GRADE REQUIREMENTS.

All individuals assigned to this occupation must meet all the basic qualification requirements above and all basic qualification requirements defined in the specific assignment.

All positions must be designated in one of the approved title or parenthetical title, as described below and duties must meet the definition of the assignment:

a. Respiratory Therapist.

Respiratory Therapist GS-05 positions designated in this qualification standard are developmental positions under the 0601 series and do not have the same requirements as Respiratory Therapists in the 0651 series.

The Respiratory Therapist title in this standard may only be used at the GS-05 level while the incumbent is working towards obtaining the RRT registration.

b. Registered Respiratory Therapist.

Working titles, such as program coordinator, assistant chief, national program manager, etc., may be used at the organizational level to designate the work of the position.

c. Registered Respiratory Therapist (Pulmonary)

d. Registered Respiratory Therapist (Polysomnography)

e. Registered Respiratory Therapist (Pulmonary/Polysomnography)

f. Lead Registered Respiratory Therapist

g. Supervisory Registered Respiratory Therapist
GRADE DETERMINATIONS.

In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met when determining the grade of candidates.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. Respiratory Therapist, GS-05.

(a) Experience.

None beyond the basic requirements.

(b) Education and Licensure.

This level assignment is designated as temporary under paragraph 4d(1) above for individuals who have
successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor, acquired the CRT credential, licensed by their state and are working towards obtaining RRT credential.

(c) Assignment.

This is the entry level developmental position. RTs at this grade level perform basic therapeutic modalities in all areas of respiratory care environment under close clinical supervision by an RRT at the full performance level or higher. RTs are responsible for such assignments as medication delivery related to respiratory care, initiating and monitoring oxygen therapy, assisting with cardiopulmonary resuscitation suctioning of artificial airway, evaluating and performing aerosol humidification therapy and participating in care team rounds.

Do you meet the experience, education and license requirements at the GS-05 level as stated above?

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Registered Respiratory Therapist, GS-07.

(a) Experience, Education, Licensure and Registration.

In addition to the basic requirements, candidates must possess their RRT credential.

(b) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities.

In addition to the requirements above, candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs:

i. Ability to perform therapeutic modalities related to respiratory care.

ii. Skill in analyzing physiological specimens obtained to include arterial blood gases, pulse oximetry, End tidal Co2 (ETCo2) monitoring, basic spirometry and other basic diagnostic procedures.

iii. Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals for respiratory care to help provide favorable patient outcomes.

iv. Skill in assessing oxygenation and ventilation.

v. Ability to perform basic airway management to include artificial airways and mechanical ventilation.

(c) Assignment.

This is a developmental position. RRTs at this grade level will be responsible for the following assignments with minimal clinical supervision from an RRT at the full performance level in both inpatient and/or outpatient settings. RRTs complete patient assessment through direct contact, chart review and other means as appropriate and share the information with health care team members. They use accepted
measuring/monitoring tools for determining plan of care. They place nasal and oropharyngeal airway and perform nasal and tracheal suctioning. RRTs obtain, analyze and report arterial and venous blood gas samples. They perform duties in the critical area with close supervision to include in- line suctioning, re-positioning and securing Endo Tracheal tube, bag valve mask ventilation, assisting in patient transport and performing patient ventilator assessment. RRTs provide outpatient services, such as positive airway pressure (PAP) therapy, oxygen therapy and COPD care.

Do you meet the requirements as stated above for the GS-07 level?

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Registered Respiratory Therapist, GS-09.

(a) Experience or Education, Licensure and Credential.

Candidates must have:

i. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level;

OR

ii. A Master of Science degree in respiratory care AND a license AND an RRT credential.

(b) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities.

In addition to the requirements above, candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs:

i. Skill in performing therapeutic modalities related to respiratory care.

ii. Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare

professionals to help provide favorable patient outcomes.

iii. Skill in assessing oxygenation and ventilation.

iv. Ability to perform airway management to include artificial airways and mechanical ventilation.

(c) Assignments. This is a developmental position. RRTs at this grade level are responsible for the following under general guidance in both inpatient and/or outpatient settings. RRTs obtain, interpret and analyze physiological specimens and data. They consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals to ensure quality of patient care within area of specialty. They manage and maintain the airway and ventilation of the patient through the use of appropriate mechanical means. RRTs assess and evaluate patients to determine and recommend intervention to develop and implement a plan of care, such as, implementing protocols, intubation, monitoring critical systems and uses advanced modes of ventilation. They provide outpatient
services such as home ventilators, PAP therapy, oxygen therapy and COPD care.

Do you meet all the requirements stated above for the GS-09 level?

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Registered Respiratory Therapist, GS-11.

(a) Experience, Licensure and Credential. Candidates must have:

i. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level. 

ii. Hold an active license and RRT credential.

(b) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities.

In addition to the requirements above, candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs:

i. Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals for complex respiratory care to develop care plans to provide favorable patient outcomes.

ii. Skill in evaluating the efficacies of therapeutic modalities.

iii. Skill in performing advanced airway and ventilation management.

(c) Assignments.

This assignment is the full performance level. RRTs at this grade level work independently providing respiratory care in both inpatient and/or outpatient settings. The specific assignments are dependent on facility structure and complexity levels. They use data and patient assessment to establish appropriate plan of care and determine if outcomes are being met. They consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals to ensure quality of patient care within area of specialty. They manage and maintain the airway and ventilation of the patient using appropriate mechanical means. RRTs determine and implement complex respiratory care such as protocols, respiratory modalities, bronchoscopy, medications or supplemental oxygen and intubation. They monitor critical systems. They use advanced modes of ventilation and outpatient services, such as home ventilators and COPD case management. RRTs suggest alternate modes of treatment where indicated based on assessment and analysis of patient response to treatment. RRTs at this grade level may perform invasive procedures such as arterial line placement. They serve as a preceptor to lower graded staff. They may lead projects developing new policies, procedures or protocols.

Do you meet all the requirements at the GS-11 level as stated above?

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected