Position Title
Clinical Laboratory Scientist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTA-12757532-25-KT Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 2, 2025 to Friday, July 11, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Clinical Laboratory Scientist, GS-0644-07/09/11 position. We will evaluate your application and responses to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. Please read the announcement in its entirety and review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
REQUIRED DOCUMENTS:
Resume. (REQUIRED by ALL) Your resume must have the following information for each position you have listed on your resume: position title, employer, city/state, duties, begin/end dates of employment including the month and year (mm/yy - mm/yy), and full-time or part-time status with the number of hours worked each week. IN DESCRIBING YOUR EXPERIENCE, PLEASE BE CLEAR AND SPECIFIC. WE MAY NOT MAKE ASSUMPTIONS REGARDING YOUR EXPERIENCE and/or KSAs. If your resume does not support your questionnaire answers, we will not allow credit for your response(s).
Clear Copy of official Transcripts for education verification. Required if you are applying on the basis of your education, you are REQUIRED to submit a legible copy of your college transcript in order to use education to qualify. See Veteran's Preference section of this announcement.
An official transcript is a copy of your permanent academic record that includes:
A list of the courses you took.
The dates you attended the school.
Your major and degree.
Your cumulative grade point average (GPA).
Any honors you received.
The date your degree was awarded.
Latest non-award SF-50. Current VA OR FEDERAL employees MUST provide their recent SF50 (dated the current year). SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action must be submitted showing current position, grade, series, etc.). 'Award' or 'Incentive' SF-50 DO NOT contain the required information and will not be considered valid required documentation to verify status.
Certification/Licensure. Must provide (insert required certification or licensure).
**IF THE REQUIRED DOCUMENTS ARE NOT SUBMITTED, YOU WILL NOT RECEIVE CONSIDERATION FOR THIS POSITION**
 
From <https://usastaffing.gov/Staffing/Assessment/Edit/1373277?activesubtab=Assessment%20Questionnaire>
 
 

Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Are you a United States citizen?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7403(f)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you possess a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3a. Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your bachelor’s degree. Otherwise, indicate N/A.

Name of Institution
City and State
Degree
Major/Program
Month and Year conferred
Exception for Non-Certified.

(a) Applicants who do not currently hold valid certification may be hired by VA and actively work toward their certification if they meet one of 4 the routes identified in Appendix A that makes them eligible to take the MLS certification exam through the ASCP BOC or the MLS certification exam through AMT Certification Agency.
(b) Non-Certified applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for licensure may be given a temporary appointment CLS under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405
(c)(2).(c) Non-Certified individuals may only provide care under the supervision of a certified CLS at or above the FPL.
(d) Non-certified individuals may only be appointed at the entry level and may not be promoted/converted until certification is obtained.
(e) Temporary appointments of non-certified CLS may not be extended beyond 2 years or be converted to a new temporary appointment.
4.
Certification: Candidates must meet one of the certifications below:

(a)Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT.
(b)Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT.
(c)Categorical certification or Specialist certification by ASCP or AMT.


NOTE: Categorical and specialist certifications are not acceptable for CLS Generalist positions or lab sections unrelated to the categorical or specialist certification held. Categorical or specialist certifications are acceptable for higher-graded positions within the relevant lab section or one of the non-section specific assignments (including, Ancillary Testing Coordinator, Education Coordinator, Laboratory Information Manager, Quality Manager, Laboratory Manager, Regional Technical Specialist, National Quality and Compliance Agent, Regional Program Manager, Regional Director, Laboratory Director, or National Quality and Compliance Officer).

Please select the response that best describes your certification
 A. Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT.
 B. Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT.
 C. Categorical certification or Specialist certification by ASCP or AMT.
 D. I meet the Exception for Non-Certified applicants
 E. I do not possess the required certification for this position
4a. Please provide your certification information. If you are not certified and do not expect to become certified within two years please indicate N/A.

Type of Certification(s) and numbers
Month and Year Certified/Expected
Certification
Date
Accrediting Body
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. Clinical Laboratory Scientist, GS-07

(1) Experience. None beyond the basic requirements.

(2) Assignment. Employee at this level serves in a CLS entry-level position. It is expected that they receive guidance from more experienced staff members and require daily direct supervision. The incumbent serves as a generalist CLS with responsibility for performing procedures in the areas of Chemistry, Hematology, Coagulation, Urinalysis, Microbiology and Blood Bank.

Do you meet the basic requirements for this position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Clinical Laboratory Scientist, GS-09.


(1) Experience or Education. Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:

(a) Experience. 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-07).

OR

(b) Education. Master's degree or 2 academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in medical technology or a directly related science.

(2) Assignment. An individual at this grade level serves as a developmental CLS. The CLS is responsible for evaluating, performing, interpreting, and validating the accuracy and validity of test results. The CLS demonstrates a clear progression of clinical knowledge and experience by performing testing procedures on a variety of biological specimens using manual or automated methods. This includes routine testing, quality control, routine maintenance of instrumentation, and troubleshooting that applies innovative procedures and problem solving. Deviations from regular procedures, unanticipated problems, and unfamiliar situations are referred to more experienced staff for a decision or assistance. Assignments at this level will include developmental duties of increasing scope and diversity as compared to the entry level. It is expected that a CLS at this grade performs more complex work while receiving less frequent supervision than at the entry level.

Please select the following answer that best describes your level of experience, education, or combination of experience/education.
 A. I possess 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-7), which is directly related to the position to be filled
 B. I possess a master’s degree or 2 academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in medical technology or directly related science.
 C. I do not possess creditable experience or higher-level education reflected in answers A and B.
6a. If you selected B, provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your master's degree or completed 2 academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education. Otherwise indicate "N/A".

Name of Institution
City and State
Degree
Major/Program
Month and Year conferred
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
7. GS-09 Knowledge, Skills and Abilities: In addition to meeting the experience or education for the GS-9 level, do you also possess the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities?

(a) Knowledge of policies and procedures of clinical laboratory testing.
(b) Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance principles.
(c) Knowledge of laboratory equipment and routine maintenance.
(d) Ability to work as a team member and effectively complete assignments.
(e) Ability to read and interpret written instructions.(f) Ability to accurately perform pre-analytical, analytical, and post-analytical phases of testing.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Clinical Laboratory Scientist, GS-11.

(1) Experience or Education. Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:

(a) Experience. 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level.

OR

b) Education. Must have 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science.

(2) Assignment. This is considered FPL for a CLS. A CLS at this level independently carries out the day-to-day operations in the laboratory. The CLS develops, performs, evaluates, interprets, correlates, and validates the accuracy of laboratory procedures and results in line with current laboratory regulatory requirements. The work performed may be in a variety of laboratory specialties such as chemistry, microbiology immunology, hematology, and immunohematology. Testing procedures are performed on a variety of biological specimens and/or environmental samples using manual or automated methods. In addition to routine testing, the CLS conducts quality control and routine maintenance of instrumentation and troubleshooting. The CLS correlates abnormal lab data with pathological states, determines the validity of test results, and the need for additional tests. Specific targeted laboratory responsibilities or projects may include laboratory safety officer, analyzer specialist, primary operator on new test systems, quality control specialist, supply control, and/or coordinator for the laboratory competency assessment or proficiency/survey program. This assignment may include limited duties in areas such as lab information management and ancillary testing. These tasks require a broad exercise of independent judgment and responsibility, including organizing and setting priorities with minimal technical supervision. The CLS assesses a situation, considers the options, and formulates an appropriate course of action. This assignment includes monitoring quality control systems and measures, collaborating in the diagnosis and treatment of patients, and providing education for laboratory health care professionals and the public in a professional, courteous, and effective manner.

Please select the following answer that best describes your level of experience, education, or combination of experience/education.
 A. I possess 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-9), which is directly related to the position to be filled
 B. I possess 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science
 C. I do not possess creditable experience or higher-level education reflected in answers A and B
8a. If you selected B, provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your master's degree or completed 2 academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education. Otherwise indicate "N/A".

Name of Institution
City and State
Degree
Major/Program
Month and Year conferred
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
9. GS-11 Knowledge, Skills and Abilities: In addition to meeting the experience or education for the GS-11 level, do you also possess the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities?


(a)Knowledge of professional clinical laboratory science principles, practices, concepts, and theories that support sound, independent work
(b)Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance procedures and principles of performance improvement.
(c)Skill in informatics, laboratory data flow, and laboratory processes.
(d)Ability to maintain, troubleshoot, and repair instrumentation.
(e)Ability to use independent technical judgment to analyze and interpret laboratory results.
(f)Ability to read, interpret, and apply complex written instructions.
(g)Ability to communicate, consult, and interact with other members of the health care team, external relations, customer service, and patient education.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. I certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. i understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected