Position Title
Information Technology Specialist
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OIT-SMP-12767965-ART Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 22, 2025 to Monday, July 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. (1) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is currently on Active Duty?

-OR-

(2) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs? In order to be considered under this appointment authority you must not currently be serving or have served under this authority. 

-OR-

(3) Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status? In order to be considered under this appointment authority you must not currently be serving or have served under this authority.

To verify your eligibility for option 1 identified above, you must submit official supporting documentation (i.e. copy of the Active Duty orders or statement of service)

To verify your eligibility for options 2 and 3 identified above, you must submit all supporting documents identified on the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15 (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (Member 4 copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; death certificate and documentation identifying marital status at the time of death; disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service, etc.). For information on how to request veterans documentation please contact the Veterans Affairs Benefits and Services at 1-800-827-1000   or online via https://iris.custhelp.va.gov/app/ask/ 

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans Resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who meets one of the following criteria:
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) Eligible:  You have received notice that you will be displaced from the DHS, or
Displaced DHS employee with a confirmed Reemployment Priority List (RPL) registration: 
You have received notice that you will be displaced from the DHS, or
You have been separated by a reduction in force (RIF) from DHS within the last two years, or
You are fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year from date of separation from DHS due to a Workers Compensation Claim? 
 If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This question applies to current DHS employees. If you are not a current DHS employee, select No.  If you claim only this eligibility, and you are not a current DHS employee, you will not receive further consideration for this position.   

Are you a current Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who is currently employed with DHS in a permanent competitive service position? DHS includes the following agencies: CBP, ICE, FEMA, FLETC, USCIS, USCG, USSS, etc.). Please visit http://dhsconnect.dhs.gov for a comprehensive list of all DHS agencies. 

Note: To verify your eligibility as a current DHS employee you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting: Tenure: Career or career-conditional (1 or 2) and Position Occupied: Competitive service (1).

If you do not meet any of the categories above, you must answer no to this question.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4.

The following question applies to a current permanent federal employee in the competitive service.  If you are not a current permanent federal employee in the competitive service, select No.   

Are you a current federal civilian employee with the Federal government in a permanent competitive service position? 

To verify your eligibility as indicated above, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action(s), Standard Form(s) 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form(s) reflecting your current permanent position in the competitive service 

Tenure (Box 24): Career or career-conditional (1 or 2)  
Position Occupied (Box 34): Competitive service (1)  

NOTE:  If you are a current federal employee in an excepted service position or other than permanent competitive service position then you are not eligible under this current federal employee eligibility.  If you have prior permanent competitive service with the federal government, you may be eligible as a reinstatement applicant if the announcement is open to former federal employees. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency? If yes, confirm:
You occupy (or have been separated from) a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6.

Are you a current or former land management employee eligible to apply under The Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act as described in 5 U.S.C 9602, who meets the conditions below?  

Hired for a temporary or term position under a competitive appointment.  

Served one or more temporary or term appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years.  

Performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service.  

If no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit the following: 

Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 reflecting your time limited status. 

Additional Standard Form 50s may be required to demonstrate a service period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years.  

Your most recent performance appraisal demonstrating fully successful, or equivalent.  See Additional Information section of vacancy announcement for further details.    

If you have had multiple periods of time-limited employment, you must show proof of acceptable levels of employment for each of the periods of employment used to satisfy the 24-month requirement.  

 A. Yes
 B. No
7.

Instruction: As a federal competitive service employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current federal employee, have you held a permanent position in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. To verify your eligibility as a current Federal civilian employee with promotion potential, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action(s), Standard Form(s) 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form(s) that reflect:   

Tenure (Box 24): Career or career-conditional (1 or 2); AND 
Position Occupied (Box 34): Competitive service (1); OR 
Position Occupied (Box 34): Excepted service (2); when in another merit system which OPM has an interchange; AND 
Promotion Potential equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced. 
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.

You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
are entitled to veterans' preference?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service. For information on how to request your veterans documentation please contact the Veterans Affairs Benefits and Services at 1-800-827-1000  or online via https://iris.custhelp.va.gov/app/ask/
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Havre, MT
 B. Portal, ND
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
11
12
3. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-9 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-9 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-9 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-11 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am applying as a VEOA and am not a current or former federal employee; OR I am a current or former federal employee eligible under the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act; OR I am applying as a Military Spouse.
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a current GS federal employee (or my previous federal employment in the last 52 weeks was) under one of the following appointments: temporary or as a Schedule B VEOA.
4. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am applying as a VEOA and am not a current or former federal employee; OR I am a current or former federal employee eligible under the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act; OR I am applying as a Military Spouse.
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a current GS federal employee (or my previous federal employment in the last 52 weeks was) under one of the following appointments: temporary or as a Schedule B VEOA.
6. This position requires the ability to operate a Government Owned Vehicle. Do you have a valid, non-restricted driver's license or will you be able to obtain a valid, non-restricted driver's license before the time of appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by CBP. Individuals are required to have physically resided in the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law) for at least three of the last five years, before completing an application for CBP employment.

If you do not meet the residency requirement as stated above and you have been physically located in a foreign location for more than two of the last five years, you may request an exception to determine if you are eligible for a residency wavier by meeting one or more of the following conditions:
Working for the U.S. Government as a federal civilian or as a member of the military
A dependent who was authorized to accompany a federal civilian or member of the military who was working for the U.S. government
Participation in a study abroad program sponsored by a U.S. affiliated college or university
Working as a contractor, intern, consultant or volunteer supporting the U.S. government

Exceptions may be granted to applicants if they can provide complete state-side coverage information required to make a suitability determination. Examples of state-side coverage information include: the state-side address of the company headquarters where the applicant's personnel file is located, the state-side address of the Professor in charge of the applicant's "Study Abroad" program, and/or the state-side addresses of anyone who worked or studied with the applicant while overseas. If selected for a position, you must provide documentation to support a request for an exception.

Do you meet the residency requirement?
 A. Yes, for at least 3 of the last 5 years I physically resided within the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law).
 B. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am a current CBP employee.
 C. No, I do not meet this requirement and am therefore requesting an exception under one of the criteria listed above. I understand that if selected for this position, I will be required to provide supporting documentation for the period of time I have spent outside of the United States.
 D. No, I do not meet this requirement and am not requesting an exception. I understand that since I do not meet CBP’s residency requirement, I cannot be considered for a position with CBP at this time.
8. Are you receiving a civilian retirement annuity from OPM based on retiring from the Federal government? If you select yes and you are selected for this position, your salary will be off-set by the amount of your civilian retirement annuity.

To verify, you must submit a copy of your retirement SF-50 with your application package. It is also recommended to submit a copy of your most recent annuity statement.

Note, this does not apply to military retirement and annuity pay.
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
10. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
11. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
The following questions 4 will be used to determine whether or not you meet the Mandatory Basic Requirement for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
12. I have experience with attention to detail when performing work and been conscientious about attending to detail.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Not applicable, I'm qualifying for this position based on education. This applies to positions at the GS-11 and below.
13. I have experience with customer service as it pertains to working with clients and customers to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfying their expectations.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Not applicable, I'm qualifying for this position based on education. This applies to positions at the GS-11 and below.
14. I have experience with communicating effectively orally. This includes making clear and convincing argument to individuals or groups including taking into account the audience and the nature of the information. Along with listening to others while observing visual cues and responding appropriately.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Not applicable, I'm qualifying for this position based on education. This applies to positions at the GS-11 and below.
15. I have experience problem solving which includes determining the accuracy and relevance of information. Along with using sound judgement to generate and evaluate alternatives and makes recommendation based on those findings.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Not applicable, I'm qualifying for this position based on education. This applies to positions at the GS-11 and below.
The following 2 questions will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
16. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience and/or education to qualify for the GS-11 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that included analyzing, planning, integrating and configuring network systems hardware; diagnosing and resolving network problems, hardware/software interface and interoperability problems; testing, installing, configuring and maintaining networks including hardware, middleware and software to ensure conformance to national standards consulting and; evaluating new hardware and software technologies for potential inclusion into the enterprise.
 B. I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree in an accredited college or university. This education must be in the fields of computer science, engineering, information science, information systems management, mathematics, operations research, statistics, or technology management or a degree that provided a minimum of 24 semester hours in one or more of the fields identified above. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 C. I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.
17. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-12 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that included adjusting, modifying and improving Information Technology systems; diagnosing and resolving problems in response to customer reported incidents involving different platforms, operating systems, applications and desktop configurations; installing, configuring, integrating, troubleshooting, optimizing and monitoring network performance and; providing guidance and solutions in planning and implementing migration activities to ensure successful deployment of technologies.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
Assessment 1
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
1. Indicate the extent of your experience ensuring that information security/information assurance policies, principles, and practices are applied in the delivery of customer support services.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have followed the guidance of others in applying information security/information assurance policies, principles, and practices in the delivery of customer support services.
 C. I have independently ensured that information security/information assurance policies, principles, and ractices are applied in the delivery of customer support services.
 D. I have been responsible for ensuring that information security/information assurance policies, principles, and practices are applied in the delivery of customer support services by a team or group.
2. Indicate the extent of your experience diagnosing or resolving problems in response to customer-reported incidents.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have diagnosed problems in response to customer-reported incidents, but have not resolved problems as part of my normal duties.
 C. I diagnose and resolve problems by working with a team, in response to customer-reported incidents, as part of my normal duties.
 D. I have independently diagnosed and resolved problems in response to customer-reported incidents as part of my normal duties.
3. Indicate the extent of your experience installing and maintaining customer hardware or software.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in installing and maintaining customer hardware or software.
 C. I have independently installed and maintained customer hardware or software as part of my normal duties.
 D. I have trained others on how to install and maintain customer hardware or software.
4. Indicate the extent of your experience addressing and resolving reported cyber-security threats/alerts.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have addressed and resolved reported cyber-security threats/alerts for individual accounts.
 C. I have addressed and resolved reported cyber-security threats/alerts for the organization's network.
5. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of computer network architecture, equipment, tools, principles, and concepts.

 A. I have no knowledge of computer network architecture, equipment, tools, principles, and concepts.
 B. I have basic knowledge of computer network architecture, equipment, tools, principles, and concepts, but have not applied this knowledge in a work setting.
 C. I have a working knowledge of computer network architecture, equipment, tools, principles, and concepts, and have applied this knowledge in a work setting on a regular basis.
 D. I have extensive knowledge of computer network architecture, equipment, tools, principles, and concepts. I am frequently consulted on complex network issues due to my expertise.
6. Indicate the extent of your experience troubleshooting and resolving IT issues.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I am able to troubleshoot and resolve simple IT issues using guidebooks or the internet, but do not perform this task as part of my normal duties.
 C. I have troubleshot and resolved Tier I or Level 1 IT issues (e.g., username/password problems, uninstalling/reinstalling software, navigating application menus, etc.).
 D. I have troubleshot and resolved Tier II or Level 2 IT issues (e.g., installation or replacement of hardware, diagnostic testing, software repair, etc.).
 E. I have troubleshot Tier III or Level 3 IT issues (e.g., server problems, operating system issues, etc.).
7. Indicate the extent of your experience configuring, integrating, troubleshooting, or optimizing customer hardware and software.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have configured, integrated, troubleshot, and optimized hardware or software, but not both.
 C. I have configured, integrated, troubleshot, and optimized hardware and software as part of my normal duties.
 D. I have trained others to configure, integrate, troubleshoot, and optimize hardware and software.
8. Indicate the extent of your experience ensuring efficient and effective sharing/transmission of information (i.e., giving briefings, writing reports, informing the organization on changes/issues with the network).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have ensured efficient and effective sharing/transmission of information (i.e., giving briefings, writing reports, informing the organization on changes/issues with the network) to my colleagues.
 C. I have ensured efficient and effective sharing/transmission of information (i.e., giving briefings, writing reports, informing the organization on changes/issues with the network) to my colleagues and direct supervisor(s).
 D. I have served as a team lead and ensured efficient and effective sharing/transmission of information (i.e., giving briefings, writing reports, informing the organization on changes/issues with the network) to my supervisor(s) and senior leaders.
 E. I have ensured efficient and effective sharing/transmission of information (i.e., giving briefings, writing reports, informing the organization on changes/issues with the network) to internal and external stakeholders.
9. Indicate the extent of your experience supporting or managing accounts, network permissions, or access to systems and equipment to ensure security compliance.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in supporting or managing accounts, network permissions, or access to systems and equipment to ensure security compliance.
 C. I have supported or managed accounts, network permissions, or access to systems and equipment to ensure security compliance.
 D. I have audited network accounts, permissions, or access to systems and equipment to ensure security compliance.
10. Indicate the extent of your experience implementing customer support procedures and standards to ensure consistent reporting.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have implemented my organization's established customer support procedures and standards to ensure consistent reporting within my work group.
 C. I have worked with a team to improve and implement customer support procedures and standards to ensure consistent reporting across my organization.
 D. I have submitted ideas to my senior leaders to improve customer support procedures and standards to ensure consistent reporting, and these ideas have been implemented across my organization.
11. Indicate the extent of your experience providing customer training to enhance user knowledge.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted customers one-on-one to enhance user knowledge.
 C. I have provided informal customer training classes to small groups of people (less than 10) to enhance user knowledge.
 D. I have provided formal and informal customer training classes to large groups of people (more than 10) to enhance user knowledge.
 E. I have trained others on how to provide customer training to enhance user knowledge.
12. Indicate the extent of your experience ensuring the integration and availability of all system components (e.g., procedures, databases, policies, software, and hardware).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have worked with a team to ensure the integration and availability of all system components (e.g., procedures, databases, policies, software, and hardware).
 C. I have ensured the integration and availability of all system components (e.g., procedures, databases, policies, software, and hardware), as part of my normal duties.
 D. I have served as a team lead to ensure the integration and availability of all system components (e.g., procedures, databases, policies, software, and hardware).
13. Indicate the extent of your experience resolving hardware/software interface and interoperability problems.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others to resolve routine hardware/software interface and interoperability problems.
 C. I have resolved non-routine hardware/software interface and interoperability problems as part of my normal duties.
 D. I have served as a team lead ensuring complex hardware/software interface and interoperability problems were resolved.
14. Indicate the extent of your experience ensuring that software and systems quality and functionality meet customer requirements.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in ensuring that software and systems quality and functionality meet customer requirements.
 C. I have ensured that software and systems quality and functionality met customer requirements as part of my normal duties.
 D. I have served as a team lead and had the primary responsibility for ensuring that software and systems quality and functionality met customer requirements.
15. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of performance tuning tools and techniques to diagnose and recover failed systems.
 A. I have no knowledge of performance tuning tools and techniques to diagnose and recover failed systems.
 B. I have basic knowledge of performance tuning tools and techniques to diagnose and recover failed systems and have applied this knowledge under the close supervision of others.
 C. I have technical knowledge of performance tuning tools and techniques to diagnose and recover failed systems and have applied this knowledge as part of my normal duties.
 D. I have expert knowledge of performance tuning tools and techniques to diagnose and recover failed systems. I have trained others on the use of these tools and techniques.
16. Indicate the extent of your experience monitoring and updating incident management tracking logs/software.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have updated incident management tracking logs with information provided to me by other IT Specialists.
 C. I have monitored and updated incident management tracking logs/software, to include the metrics used and the problem resolution for my own work.
 D. I have monitored and updated incident management tracking logs/software, to include the metrics used, and the problem resolution for my team. I have assigned work to individuals as needed.
17. Indicate the extent of your experience supporting or managing the installation and integration of system patches, repairs, updates, and enhancements.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have supported others in the installation and integration of system patches, repairs, updates, and enhancements.
 C. I have supported and managed the installation and integration of system patches, repairs, updates, and enhancements as part of my normal duties.
 D. I have audited and resolved issues with the installation and integration of system patches, repairs, updates, and enhancements.
18. Indicate the extent of your experience evaluating and providing feedback on problematic trends and patterns in customer support requirements to improve customer operational capability.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have provided feedback to a supervisor or more senior individual on problematic trends and patterns in customer support requirements.
 C. I have evaluated and provided feedback directly to internal and external stakeholders on problematic trends and patterns in customer support requirements to improve customer operational capability.
 D. I have identified problematic trends and patterns in customer support requirements and implemented solutions to improve customer operational capability.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected