Position Title
Executive Director Medical Center (Physician Dentist Podiatrist) NAT 55
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBFN-12748535-25-DSS Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, July 11, 2025 to Friday, July 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Phoenix, AZ
 B. Tucson, AZ
 C. Fayetteville, AR
 D. San Francisco, CA
 E. Aurora, CO
 F. Grand Junction, CO
 G. Wilmington, DE
 H. Bay Pines, FL
 I. Miami Beach, FL
 J. Honolulu, HI
 K. Boston, MA
 L. Columbia, MO
 M. East Orange, NJ
 N. Buffalo, NY
 O. Northport, NY
 P. Syracuse, NY
 Q. Cincinnati, OH
 R. Pittsburgh, PA
 S. Columbia, SC
 T. Memphis, TN
 U. El Paso, TX
 V. Houston, TX
 W. Hampton, VA
 X. Sheridan, WY
2. Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0602 - Medical Officer
 B. 0668 - Podiatrist
 C. 0680 - Dental Officer
3. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Applicants must meet the below educational requirement in order to minimally qualify:

Physician Basic Educational Requirement:

Education. Degree of doctor of medicine: Degree of doctor of medicine or an equivalent degree resulting from a course of education in allopathic medicine or osteopathic medicine. The degree must have been obtained from an institution whose accreditation was in place for the year in which the course of study was completed. Approved schools are: (1) Schools of medicine accredited by the Liaison Committee on Medical Education (LCME) for the year in which the degree was granted, or (2) Schools of osteopathic medicine approved by the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation (COCA) of the American Osteopathic Association for the year in which the degree was granted. (3) For foreign medical graduates not covered in (1) or (2) above, facility officials must verify with the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMG) that the applicant has met requirements for certification, and must obtain a copy of the ECFMG certificate, if claimed by the applicant.

Residency Training: Physicians must have completed residency training or its equivalent, approved by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs in an accredited core specialty training program leading to eligibility for board certification. Approved residencies include those approved by the accrediting bodies for graduate medical education, Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education or American Osteopathic Association, or other residences which the Professional Standards Board determines to have provided appropriate professional training.

Dentist Basic Educational Requirement:

Education. Degree of doctor of dental surgery or dental medicine resulting from a course of education in dentistry. The degree must have been obtained from one of the schools approved by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for the year in which the course of study was completed. Approved schools are:
United States and Canadian schools of dentistry listed by the Commission on Dental Accreditation (CODA), in the list published for the year in which the course of study was completed.
Schools (including foreign schools) accepted by the licensing body of a State, Territory, or Commonwealth (i.e., Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia as qualifying for full and unrestricted licensure provided the licensure requirements include a written examination measuring science achievement and a performance examination measuring clinical competence.

Residency or Comparable Experience. Completion of an approved residency program in general practice or specialty, or comparable experience as a dentist actively involved in treating medically compromised patients.

Podiatrist Basic Educational Requirement:

Education. Applicant must possess a doctor of podiatric medicine degree, or an equivalent degree resulting from a course of education in podiatric medicine and surgery. The degree must have been obtained from an institution whose accreditation was in place for the year in which the course of study was completed. Approved schools are United States schools of podiatric medicine and surgery, approved by the Council of Podiatric Medical Education of the American Podiatry Medical Association in the year in which the degree was granted.

Residency Training. Podiatrist must have completed residency training, or its equivalent, approved by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs in an accredited core specialty training program leading to eligibility for board certification. VA Podiatrists involved in academic training programs may be required to be board-certified for faculty status. Approved residencies are:
 
Those approved by the accrediting bodies for graduate medical education, the Council on Podiatric Medical Education, in the list published for the year the residency was completed, or
Other residencies and training experiences, or their equivalents, which the local Professional Standards Board determines to have provided an applicant with appropriate professional training.


Do you meet the education requirements stated above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Applicants must have a current, full and unrestricted license to practice dentistry, medicine or surgery in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia. The dentist, physician, or podiatrist must maintain current registration in the State of licensure if this is a requirement for continuing active, current licensure. Please provide proof of license in application package.

Do you currently hold a full and unrestricted license to practice dentistry, medicine or surgery in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. DEMONSTRATED LEADERSHIP EXPERIENCE:

In addition to the education requirements, applicants must possess the following technical qualifications and executive core qualifications (ECQs) required for this position. Typically, these qualifications would be gained through progressively responsible management or executive level assignments such as director of a region or program in areas of medical and healthcare leadership.

All applicants must show in their RESUME that they possess these specific technical qualifications and ECQs. It is highly recommended that your resume address your accomplishments in these specific competency areas or by writing narratives outlining your work accomplishments supporting these competencies. Failing to provide this information in your application package may result in non-consideration.

EXECUTIVE CORE QUALIFICATIONS (ECQs):

(1) Leading Change: This core qualification involves the ability to bring about strategic change, both within and outside the organization, to meet organizational goals. Inherent to this ECQ is the ability to establish an organizational vision and to implement it in a continuously changing environment.

(2) Leading People: This core qualification involves the ability to lead people toward meeting the organization's vision, mission, and goals. Inherent to this ECQ is the ability to provide an inclusive workplace that fosters the development of others, facilitates cooperation and teamwork, and supports constructive resolution of conflicts.

(3) Results Driven: This core qualification involves the ability to meet organizational goals and customer expectations. Inherent to this ECQ is the ability to make decisions that produce high-quality results by applying technical knowledge, analyzing problems, and calculating risks.

(4) Business Acumen: This core qualification involves the ability to manage human, financial and information resources strategically.

(5) Building Coalitions: This core qualification involves the ability to build coalitions internally and with other Federal agencies, state and local governments, nonprofit and private sector organizations, foreign governments, or international organizations to achieve common goals.

TECHNICAL QUALIFICATION (TQ):

(1) Knowledge of mission, organization, programs and requirements of health care delivery systems, and the ability to manage and direct a large health care facility.

Do you have the demonstrated leadership experience and technical qualification as outlined above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected