Position Title
Supervisory Emergency Management Specialist (Individual Assistance Branch Director)
Agency
Federal Emergency Management Agency
Announcement Number
KH-12785255-CORE Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 20, 2025 to Thursday, August 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) employee?

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a FEMA SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action. We recommend submitting your last promotion SF-50, current SF-50, or within-grade increase SF-50.  Award SF-50's do not include all the required information and will not be accepted.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. How did you hear about this Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) job opportunity?
 A. USAJOBS
 B. FEMA's Social Media (Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Online Job board (Indeed, Zip Recruiter, etc.)
 D. FEMA.gov Careers Website
 E. FEMA Virtual Hiring Event
 F. FEMA On-Site Hiring Event
 G. College/University/Alumni Organization
 H. FEMA Employee Referral
 I. Other
3. Are you a retiree receiving a federal annuity (either military or civilian)? Or have you accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years? (Select all that apply.)
 A. Yes, I'm receiving a military annuity.
 B. Yes, I'm receiving a civilian annuity.
 C. Yes, I've received a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
 D. No, I am not receiving a federal annuity and have not accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
4. Are you a current FEMA employee?
 A. I'm a current FEMA Local Hire Employee
 B. I'm a current FEMA Reservist Employee
 C. I'm a current FEMA CORE Employee
 D. I'm a current FEMA PFT Employee
 E. I'm a current FEMA Senior Executive Service Employee
 F. I'm not a current FEMA Employee
5. Are you currently serving, or have served within the last five years, as a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) employee in the Executive Branch?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Please provide the following information regarding your political appointment(s): 1. Official Title of Position; 2. Type of Appointment (i.e. Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career SES); 3. Name of Agency; 4. Date Position began; and 5. Date Position ended. (NOTE: If you have never held a political appointment, please enter N/A.)
7. Within the past five years, have you received a buyout or payment through the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment Authority (VSIP) when separating from a federal position?
 A. No
 B. Yes, and I understand candidates who are reemployed with the federal government within five years after receiving a buyout or payment under VSIP are required to repay the entire amount of the incentive prior to their onboarding date.
8. Did you elect to voluntarily resign or retire through the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) or Workforce Transition Program (WTP)
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?

Select "Not Applicable" if this question does not apply to you.
 A. Yes
 B. No, but I have an exemption
 C. I am a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, and have NOT registered with the Selective Service System and do NOT have an exemption.
 D. Not Applicable
2. All FEMA employees are subject to 24-hour on-call in the event of an emergency and all Federal employees may be subject to emergency deployment. In the event of an emergency deployment, travel requirements may be extensive in nature (weeks to months), with little advance notice, and may require relocation to emergency sites, some of which are quite austere. The length of deployment may last anywhere from days to months, depending upon the nature of the emergency or disaster.

Every FEMA employee is considered an emergency manager and each employee has regular and recurring emergency management responsibilities, although not every position requires routine deployment to disaster sites. Your emergency management duties may vary depending on the needs of the Agency, your particular skills, and certain personal circumstances. All positions may require irregular work hours, work at locations other than the official duty station, and may include duties other than those specified in the employee's official position description.

Are you able to meet this commitment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

In order to be hired for this position, applicants must undergo and successfully pass a background investigation. This may include a review of financial issues, such as delinquency, child support and/or tax obligations, as well as certain criminal offenses and illegal use of or possession of drugs.

Are you willing to undergo a background investigation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. Grade 14: Do you have one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the GS-13 level, as described in the vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Please take this opportunity to review your question responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you understand this statement, have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
3. From the list below, select the response that best describes your experience providing guidance concerning Individual Assistance Programs. Select all answer for which you have experience.
 A. I have synthesized individual assistance data from assessments and reports.
 B. I have used the information from individual assistance data and from assessments to make recommendations on courses of action to my IA partners.
 C. I have supplied individual assistance data and conducted assessments.
 D. I have identified and tracked gaps in federal, state, or local programs associated with individual disaster recovery in an effort to make recommendations on improvement.
 E. None of the above
4. From the list below, select the response that best describes your experience with disaster incidents for individual assistance programs (your resume must support the response you select).
 A. I have experience executing plans to temporarily or permanently house displaced disaster survivors.
 B. I have experience supporting implementation of individual assistance programs that provide Federal support to state, tribal, territorial or local governments in response to a disaster incident.
 C. I Have experience leading or directing activation of emergency disaster human services operations at the state, tribal, or local government level, or as the primary representative of a non-governmental or faith-based organization.
 D. I have experience leading the implementation of federal individual assistance programs, directing response and recovery Individual assistance disaster program operations, and managing federal support to state, tribal, territorial or local governments in response to a disaster incident.
 E. I do not possess the experience listed above.
5. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) the individual assistance programs you have implemented.
 A. Housing assistance program
 B. Disaster legal services
 C. Crisis counseling assistance and training program
 D. Mass care and emergency assistance coordination
 E. Voluntary agency coordination
 F. Disaster case management
 G. Human Services
 H. Public Assistance
 I. Fire Suppression Assistance
 J. Grant Program
 K. Emergency Food and Shelter Program
 L. Public Works and Engineering
 M. Community Planning and Capacity Building Resource Support Function
 N. Donations Management
 O. None of the above
6. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience implementing individual assistance or human services activities within an emergency management context.
 A. I have executed individual assistance programs.
 B. I have coordinated with Federal, state, local, tribal, and/or territorial partners to implement emergency management assistance programs.
 C. I have been deployed to a disaster to execute Emergency Support Function #6 activities.
 D. I have managed the complete execution of an individual assistance or human services program after an emergency management event.
 E. I have analyzed developing emergency management situations to determine the potential for an emergency management declaration at the Federal, state, local, tribal, and/or territorial level.
 F. I have led activation of emergency disaster human services operations at the Federal, state, tribal, or local government level, or as the primary representative of a non-governmental or faith-based organization.
 G. I have led Mass Care activities in response to an emergency management event.
 H. I have performed disaster damage assessments.
 I. I have provided input to State Plans.
 J. I have provided input to Grant proposals.
 K. None of the above.
7. Select all the individual assistance programs you have experience performing and leading from the list below.
 A. Determination for an IA disaster declaration
 B. Implementing a housing assistance program
 C. Implementing assistance program for providing other needs
 D. Disaster Unemployment Assistance
 E. Crisis Counseling Assistance
 F. Mass Care and Emergency Assistance Coordination
 G. Voluntary Agency Coordination
 H. Disaster Recovery Planning
 I. None of the above
8. Concerning your leadership experience, select four (4) duty(ies) that you have experience performing on a regular, recurring basis.
 A. I have facilitated collaboration, coordination, and communication between staff members and others.
 B. I have coached staff members in problem solving methods.
 C. I have identified and balanced workload and tasks among employees in accordance with established skill levels.
 D. I have trained and mentored employees.
 E. I have led and motivated others to accomplish mission goals.
 F. I have devised and implemented organizational plans and procedures.
 G. I have provided advice on work methods, practices, and procedures.
 H. I have established performance standards and counseled employees on performance plans.
 I. I have taken necessary action in cases of poor performance or misconduct.
 J. None of the above.
9. Describe your experience in a leadership position where you directed the work of a team of people accomplishing a task.
 A. I have held a supervisory position where I assigned work tasks and checked on the progress and quality of the work of other supervisors and staff.
 B. I have held a supervisory position where I assigned work tasks and checked on the progress and quality of the work for a staff of 10 or more.
 C. I have held a supervisory position where I assigned work tasks and checked on the progress and quality of the work for a staff of 5 or more
 D. I have never held a supervisory position where I assigned work tasks and checked on the progress and quality of the work.
10. From the list below, please indicate the leadership function(s) you have performed. (Select all that apply.)
 A. Assigned work.
 B. Communicated priorities.
 C. Monitored work progress.
 D. Prepared reports.
 E. Maintained records.
 F. None of the above.
11. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience representing the interests of a program or function under your direct responsibility.
 A. I have maintained collaborative relationships with personnel in peer or senior positions in other organizations, departments, or agencies.
 B. I have led projects that crossed organizational or agency boundaries.
 C. I have served as a team member on projects that cross organizational or agency boundaries.
 D. I have represented the organization at inter-agency meetings.
 E. I have maintained relationships with various Federal, State, and/or Local stakeholders.
 F. None of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected