Position Title
Supervisory Biomedical Engineer (Clinical)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSY-12767632-25-BAD Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, July 18, 2025 to Monday, July 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
3. Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Name and Contact Information
Job title
Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2021)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week if part-time)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held.
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

Do you confirm that the above information is clearly stated for each work entry you are claiming experience for, and that each entry is full time unless otherwise annotated with part-time hours?
 A. Yes
 B. No
If applying as an internal or status candidate with current or former Federal Service, you must provide a copy of your most recent non-award SF-50, "Notification of Personnel Action", showing the highest grade or promotion potential held, dated within the last year.

All qualifying experience you possess must be clearly described in your application package. We will not make assumptions when reviewing applications. Failure to demonstrate your experience and knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) in your application may result in disqualification. It is strongly recommended that you write to each KSA to demonstrate how you have gained each one in your application package or on a supplemental document. Please see the announcement for KSA requirements.

Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the position of Supervisory Biomedical Engineer (Clinical) with the VA Central Iowa Health Care System. Please select the appropriate responses to the following questionnaire based on your qualifications for this position. When answering the questions, remember that your experience is subject to verification and investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples of documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. If your resume does not support your responses to this questionnaire, you will not receive credit, and may be disqualified.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Basic Language Requirement (Screen Out): Biomedical Engineers must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Chapter 2, section D, paragraph 5a. Do you meet this basic requirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Basic Education Requirement (Screen Out): Select the one statement that best describes your current level of education.

 A. I possess a bachelor's degree or higher in Engineering. The curriculum is from a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET), as a professional engineering curriculum in one of the following areas: Biomedical Engineering, Clinical Engineering, Bioengineering, Biomechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, or Biochemical Engineering.
 B. I possess certification as a Certified Clinical Engineer (CCE) and a bachelor's degree in an area other than those listed above.
 C. None of these responses apply to me. I do not meet the basic education and/or experience requirement for this position.
3. Experience Requirement (Screen Out): To qualify for the position of Supervisory Biomedical Engineer (Clinical) at the GS-13 level, you must have completed at least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, GS-12 Biomedical Engineer, including having fully met the KSAs at that GS-12 level as described below. To receive credit, your experience must be clearly supported by the information in your resume.
Ability to conduct a medical equipment management program that is compliant with applicable healthcare standards and regulatory agencies;
Ability to develop a curriculum for continuing education program, that address the safe and effective use of medical technology devices;
Ability to manage a recall and safety alert program for medical devices, including medical device hazard investigations, to assure compliance with patient safety goals, SMDA, and TJC requirements;
Ability to conduct capital asset and infrastructure planning for medical equipment spanning initial concept, installation, and effective implementation of complex medical equipment;
Ability to function as the subject matter expert in the field of biomedical engineering, directly supporting specialized clinical technology, including service, system administration, training, quality assurance, and life-cycle management;
Ability to effectively advise clinical and administrative staff on medical technology, including existing and emerging technology, which addresses viability, long-term suitability, compatibility, and/or safety;
Knowledge of concept related to computer based medical systems, networking protocols, and information security as it applies to medical technology within VHA;
Skill in communicating and working collaboratively with key stakeholders, including technical and professional staff at various levels of the organization;
Ability to apply project management principles to deployment of medical equipment and health information technologies.

Do you meet this requirement?
 A. Yes, I have completed one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, GS 12, and my resume clearly demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities of the GS-12 Biomedical Engineer as described above.
 B. No, I do not meet this requirement.
4. Additional Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities Requirement (Screen Out): In addition to the experience above, you must also demonstrate all of the following KSAs for the Supervisor Biomedical Engineer (Clinical) at the GS-13 level:
Knowledge of the management of overall department resources, i.e., finances, space, equipment, supplies, and staffing at the local level.
Ability to draft and/or recommend local policies and/or directives related to healthcare technology management.
Ability to balance multiple responsibilities, set priorities, delegate tasks, meet multiple deadlines, analyze organizational problems, and develop and implement effective solutions.
Ability to analyze organizational and operational problems to develop and implement solutions that result in efficient operations, and use data effectively to manage workload, quality performance, and productivity within the area of responsibility.
Skill in interpersonal relationships in leading and dealing with employees, team leaders, and managers, both within and outside the biomedical engineering program, to include conflict management, dispute resolution, mediation, or reasonable accommodations.

Do you meet this requirement?

Note: Your resume will be reviewed for evidence to support your claims. If a determination is made that you have inflated your responses, you may be disqualified from further consideration. If selected for the position, you may be required to submit written responses to the KSAs below in order to fully document your qualifications.
 A. Yes, I meet this requirement and my resume clearly demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities required for the position of Supervisory Biomedical Engineer (Clinical) at the GS-13 level as described above.
 B. No, I do not meet this requirement.
Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job Title; Duties (be as detailed as possible); Start/End Dates, both month and year (e.g., June 2007 to April 2008); Full-time or Part-time status (include hours worked per week); Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title (and grade level if applicable). If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.
Transcript Reminder - All positions in the 0858 series have a positive education requirement. You must submit a copy of your transcripts at the time of application to be considered for this position. The transcript you submit at the time of application need not be an official copy; however, you may be asked to provide an official transcript, statement from the institution's registrar, dean, or other appropriate official if selected for the position.
APPLICATION REMINDER: You MUST provide the completed VAF-10-2850c, Application for Associated Health Occupations. It must be signed and dated within the last year on pg 3 & 4. Failure to provide this form may result in your not being considered for this position. Please see the vacancy announcement, under the Required Documents section, for detailed information.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected