Position Title
Administrative Officer - Detail/Temporary Promotion NTE 1 year
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSV-12814062-26-CAH Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 9, 2025 to Tuesday, October 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Have you obtained supervisory approval to apply for this detail? NOTE: Requires supporting documentation of approval to be uploaded with your application. Failure to provide supporting documentation will result in your application not being considered.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Time-in-Grade Restriction - Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements within 30 days of the closing date of the posting. If you have not held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks, or are a Wage Grade, this question does not apply to you. For this vacancy, applicants must have held GS-9 or higher for at least a year to be eligible for the GS-11 grade level.


1.
Do you meet the time-in-grade requirement as described above? Please select the response below which most accurately describes you.
 I have at least one-year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-09 grade level. (You must submit an SF-50 showing you meet this requirement)
 I am currently a GS-11 or have held a higher grade. (You must submit an SF-50 showing you meet this requirement)
 This restriction does not apply to me. (for example, are a current Federal Employee in a different pay system, i.e. Wage Grade)
 This restriction applies to me, but I do not meet the requirements.


2.
Minimum Qualifications: One year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level that equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position.
Specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level that includes but is not limited to: The position requires a knowledge and skill in applying analytical and evaluative methods and techniques to issues or functions related to office administration, knowledge of pertinent laws, regulations, policies, and evaluations which affect administrative operations. Knowledgeable with major issues; program goals and objectives, work processes, and administrative operations of the organization, skill in adapting analytical techniques and evaluation criteria to the measurement and improvement of program effectiveness and/or organizational productivity, skill in conducting detailed analyses of complex functions and work processes; and interpersonal skills in presenting staffing recommendations and negotiating solutions to disputed recommendations. Have experience with requisitions for services, purchases, and construction projects both at the contracting level and the acquisition level. Experience with submitting contract packages for both construction and regular service contracts. Oversight of these actions and hands on work in contracting will be normal day to day workload. Experience must be clearly reflected in your resume.
OR
A Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. Transcript Required
OR
A combination of specialized experience and successfully completed graduate level education beyond the first 2 years of graduate level education (36 semester hour). Experience must be clearly reflected in your resume. Transcript Required.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-9 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: Coordinating and administering oversight of all policies, program and operations of a service; developing and executing all business operations and administrative functions within a department and it's programs; monitoring the performance of business and administrative functions regarding quality, efficiency, effectiveness, and patient satisfaction; identifying areas of improvement and designing processes to implement improvements; overseeing and directing work production; prioritizing work depending based on priorities, national requirements, and needs of the service; providing supervision of staff including hiring actions, disciplinary actions, awards, investigations, and promotions; monitoring expenses, tracking budget execution functions, analyzing, and forecasting funding requirements, identifying cost saving opportunities, preparing budget proposals, and advocating for needed resources.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 I have a combination of specialized experience and graduate level education beyond the second year (36 semester hour). Transcript Required. To determine if you met these requirements, total your qualifying experience as a percentage of the experience required for the grade level; then determine your education as a percentage of the education required for the grade level; then add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify. (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 I do not have the specialized experience and/or education required for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙