Position Title
Financial Manager
Agency
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
Announcement Number
25-TTB-12796498 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 9, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency covered by an OPM Interchange agreement that conveys noncompetitive eligibility?

For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=InterchangeAgreementsWithOtherMeritSystems

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following merit promotion categories?
Current Federal civilian employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current Excepted service employee covered by an Interchange Agreement
Former Federal employee with Reinstatement eligibility
Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA)
Current Federal employee serving on a VRA appointment
Land Management Employee eligible under Public Law 114-47
Other competitive category not listed above (you must submit proof of eligibility)
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you eligible to be appointed under the Military Spouse Noncompetitive Appointing Authority based on any of the following categories?
You are the spouse of an active duty member of the Armed Forces.
You are the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs.
You are the widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status, and you have not re-married.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources. (https://www.usajobs.gov/Veterans)

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a former federal employee that has been separated for at least one full year and is eligible to be non-competitively reinstated to a higher grade or full-performance level than which you left federal employment?(Note: you MUST provide:  1) a copy of your separation SF-50 (the "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2"); AND 2) the last performance appraisal you received from your federal employment which shows at least a fully successful rating.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Do you currently hold (or have you previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you eligible under any other miscellaneous appointing authority not listed thus far, such as (but not all inclusive to):
Postal Career Service Employee;
Postal Rate Commission Employee;
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; 
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee; or 
Foreign overseas employee or eligible family member of former overseas employee
 
For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=MiscellaneousAuthoritiesNotRegulated .  
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

For more information on Foreign overseas employment please review the following: https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#NontemporaryForeignService or https://www.state.gov/global-community-liaison-office/family-member-employment/family-member-employment-in-the-d-c-area/non-competitive-eligibility-nce/#NCE5




 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you eligible for consideration as a Peace Corps, VISTA, or Action volunteer?  If you select this option, you are required to provide acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility by submitting proof of employment from the appropriate agency with your completed application.

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Parkersburg, WV
2. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other
4. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
6. Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.
7. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. You must meet the minimum basic educational and/or work experience requirements for professional auditing positions in the federal government. This includes:

A.) Degree: accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing" in this standard. Similarly, "accountant" should be interpreted, generally, as "accountant and/or auditor."); OR

B.) A combination of education and experience wherein you've attained at least four years of experience in accounting or auditing, or an equivalent combination of accounting or auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. Your background must also include one of the following:
1. Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality (of which six hours may be substituted by business law);
2. A certificate as Certified Public Accountant (CPA) or a Certified Internal Auditor (CIA), obtained through written examination; or
3. Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing (e.g., 15 semester hours or 22.5 quarter hours), but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A, provided that: (a) you have successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field (e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining); (b) you believe a panel of at least two higher-level professional accountants or auditors can determine you have demonstrated good knowledge of accounting and related underlying fields equal to the breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement normally associated with successful completion of a 4-year course of study as described in paragraph A; and (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, your education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements.
1. Choose one answer that best describes your educational/work experience. (Attach a copy of transcript(s) or a list of courses designating semester or quarter hours earned to ensure proper credit).
 A. I meet the requirements as provided under part A.
 B. I meet the requirements as provided under part B.
 C. I do not meet the requirements described above.
Specialized experience for the GS 15 is: one year of experience at the GS-14 level or equivalent in the Federal service. The experience may have been gained in either the public or private sector. Specialized experience for this position is defined as proven proficiency and supportable (as evidenced in the resume) hands-on experience in ALL of the following:

- Experience in the leadership, direction, and coordination of financial management activities; AND
- Experience in accounting, budgeting, financial reporting, receivables and debt reporting, and internal control activities; AND
- Experience in preparing and/or reviewing financial statements for federal agencies in accordance with OMB guidelines.
2. Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 A. I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-14 level as described above.
 B. I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.
3. Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience analyzing and reviewing major financial issues?
 A. I have been a member of a team responsible for performing qualitative and quantitative analysis to make recommendations.
 B. I have led a team responsible for performing qualitative and quantitative analysis to make recommendations.
 C. I have been a member of a team responsible for performing qualitative and quantitative analysis of financial statements, variance analysis, budget reviews, etc., to make recommendations. These recommendations resulted in the improvements to the financial management processes.
 D. None of the above.
4. What experience do you have with financial planning and budget formulation? Select all that apply.
 A. Identifying budget requirements.
 B. Developing budget plans.
 C. Formulating financial management and budget policies and guidance.
 D. Designing financial management programs and services.
 E. Implementing financial management programs.
 F. Analyzing and assessing financial programs.
 G. I do not have any of the experience listed above.
5. Select those items that describe work activities you have performed in financial management.
 A. Formulating and preparing budget requests.
 B. Originating and/or analyzing financial statements.
 C. Reviewing financial and investment transactions for accuracy and completeness.
 D. Responding to ad hoc inquiries and preparing financial reports for upper management.
 E. None of the above.
6. From the following list, select those activities that represent your experience in managing procurement contracts.
 A. Resolved procurement problems independently.
 B. Assisting CORs to identify financial issues, analyze alternatives funding solutions, and resolve problems.
 C. Helped prepared statements of work and task orders, including gathering requirements, establishing milestones, and developing key performance metrics.
 D. Spearheaded acquisition planning initiatives.
 E. None of the above.
7. Choose the one statement that best describes your experience in oral communication.
 A. I have served as a program representative in dealing with managers and employees within the areas serviced. This included acquiring, clarifying, or exchanging facts, and information needed to complete assignments.
 B. I have justified, persuaded, negotiated, or resolved matters involving significant or conflicting service delivery issues. This included communicating effectively and harmoniously with a variety of internal and external individuals or groups (e.g., representatives from the Office, Department, and other Federal Agencies).
 C. I have served as a program representative and participated in discussions in which the purpose was to plan, coordinate, or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific programmatic issues. This included influencing or motivating individuals or groups who are working toward mutual goals and who have basically cooperative attitudes.
 D. I have conducted discussions or participated in workgroups as a program representative, in which the purpose was to influence, motivate, or persuade persons or groups. This included using communication skills to approach individuals or groups who are skeptical or in disagreement to obtain the desired effect (e.g., gaining compliance with an established procedure).
 E. I have not performed any of the above tasks.
8. Choose the statement(s) that best describe your communication/briefing skills that you use as part of your job to support office goals.
 A. Communicate financial summary reports and investment reports.
 B. Explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations.
 C. Brief managers outside the organization on financial reviews.
 D. Defend organization position with third parties performing financial oversight.
 E. Demonstrate ability to foster cooperation and consensus among groups to accomplish organization goals.
 F. Demonstrate ability to build consensus through collaboration from others to obtain information achieve results and accomplish goals.
 G. None of the above.
9. Choose the statement(s) that best describe your financial problem-solving experience.
 A. Present findings and defend solutions in writing.
 B. Present findings and defend solutions orally.
 C. Discuss findings with knowledgeable others prior to reaching a conclusion.
 D. Refer to written or oral guidance in finding a solution.
 E. Recommend several alternate solutions.
 F. List proposed solutions in order of preference.
 G. Point out a preferred solution while providing pros and cons.
 H. Gathering input from affected parties.
 I. None of the above.
10. Choose the one statement that best describes your writing experience.
 A. I have prepared briefings, background documents, and other reports related to financial studies.
 B. I have served as a subject matter expert for interpreting and drafting financial policy for the purpose of resolving specific programmatic issues involving multiple parties. This includes documenting changes via written responses or multi-agency agreements.
 C. I have prepared written reports and developed key program guidance such as annual reports, program overviews standard operating procedures and decision papers.
 D. I have prepared decision documents in which the purpose was to influence, motivate, or persuade persons or groups. This included using communication skills to approach individuals or groups who are skeptical or in disagreement to obtain the desired effect (e.g., gaining compliance with an established procedure).
 E. I have not performed any of the above tasks.
11. From the list below, please identify the areas in which you have experience providing advice, analysis, recommendations, and overseeing activities and programs.
 A. Budget Formulation.
 B. Budget Execution.
 C. Development and Review of Financial Statements.
 D. Training Others.
 E. Assessing Internal Controls for Programs and Activities.
 F. Reviewing and Coordinating Accounting Transactions and Investment Entries.
 G. Developing Annual Reports.
 H. Development of Accounting Policies and Procedures.
 I. Leading Contract and Government Employees to Resolve Financial Management Issues.
 J. None of the above.
12. Which one of the following best describes your approach in advancing team or organization goals?
 A. I am a task-oriented person and perform my work quickly and efficiently.
 B. I am approached often by others and sought for my advice and guidance.
 C. I follow protocol to accomplish my tasks.
 D. I recognize when others need assistance and respond with positive support.
 E. None of the above.
13. Which one of the following best describes your approach in collaborating and fostering positive working relationships with internal and external partners?
 A. I build constructive relationships with peers, supervisors, managers, and subordinates.
 B. I take calculated risks to improve performance, develop innovations, or achieve challenging goals.
 C. I build constructive relationships with external partners.
 D. I take action to evaluate and improve practices and avoid future problems.
 E. None of the above.
14. Choose the one statement that best describes your experience with project management.
 A. Leading a project team.
 B. Completing projects on budget and on schedule.
 C. Serving on a project team to address issues.
 D. Advising a project team on issues.
 E. Developing and maintaining project documents such as a project charter, project schedule, quality plan, and communication plan.
 F. None of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected