Position Title
Golf Course Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
CC-25-12794596 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 4, 2025 to Thursday, September 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Golf Course Manager position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.
1.

Please describe your documented experience in specialized experience in the overall management of a golf course to include golf shop, grounds maintenance and food & beverage operation. All experience must be clearly indicated in resume. 

 A. I possess no experience as mentioned above.
 B. I possess less than three (3) years of experience as mentioned above.
 C. I possess between three (3) and five (5) years of experience as mentioned above.
 D. I possess more than five (5) years of experience as mentioned above.
2.

Are you currently a Professional Golfers' Association (PGA) Class 'A' Member in good standing? Valid proof of certification is required at time of applying in order to receive credit.

 A. Yes, I am a PGA Class "A" Member in good standing.
 B. No, I am not a PGA Class "A" Member in good standing, however I am a PGA Apprentice progressing to become a PGA Class "A" Member.
 C. No, I am not a PGA Class "A" Member or Apprentice, nor am I pursuing this certification.
3. How many years of experience do you have with providing customer service e.g. providing timely and attentive service to internal and external customers, clear communication skills, product knowledge, and positive attitude?
 A. I have no experience as described above.
 B. I have less than 1 year of experience as described above.
 C. I have 1 year of experience as described above.
 D. I have 2-3 years of experience as described above.
 E. I have more than 3 years of experience as described above.
4. How many years of experience do you have with conducting inventory, maintaining inventory controls and maintaining equipment for proper accountability of program equipment and resources?
 A. I have no experience as described above.
 B. I have less than 1 year of experience as described above.
 C. I have 1 year of experience as described above.
 D. I have 2-3 years of experience as described above
 E. I have more than 3 years of experience as described above.
5. Describe your experience pertaining to federal and DOD/DoN MWR policies, requirements, and procedures to perform management planning, budgeting and coordinating of work forces and resources for the effective implementation of a golf course requirement.
 A. I do not possess experience with the above-mentioned duties.
 B. I possess two or more years’ experience, as mentioned above, but it is not within Federal, DOD/DON realm.
 C. I possess between two (2) and four (4) years’ experience with the above-mentioned duties.
 D. I possess between four (4) and six (6) years’ experience with the above-mentioned duties.
 E. I possess more than six (6) years’ experience with the above-mentioned duties.
6. Describe your experience with managing and operating a snack bar operation, which includes inspections of facility, general sanitation, physical condition of furnishings and equipment.
 A. I possess no experience with the above-mentioned duties.
 B. I possess less than two (2) years’ experience with the above-mentioned duties.
 C. I possess between two (2) and four (4) years’ experience with the above-mentioned duties.
 D. I possess between four (4) and six (6) years’ experience with the above-mentioned duties
 E. I possess more than six (6) years’ experience with the above-mentioned duties.
7. Please select the best response that describes your experience and knowledge turf maintenance and irrigation systems, and the technical aspects of maintaining the conditions of the course.
 A. I possess no experience with the above-mentioned duties.
 B. I possess less than two (2) years’ experience with the above-mentioned duties.
 C. I possess between two (2) and four (4) years’ experience with the above-mentioned duties.
 D. I possess between four (4) and six (6) years’ experience with the above-mentioned duties.
 E. I possess more than six (6) years’ experience with the above-mentioned duties.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected