Position Title
Contract Specialist
Agency
Office of Inspector General
Announcement Number
25-TOIG-12790915-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 29, 2025 to Thursday, September 4, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
12
13
2. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other
4. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
5. Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.
Assessment 1
1. Basic education requirement for the GS-13 is as follows:

A. Completion of all mandatory training prescribed by the head of the agency for progression to GS-13 or higher-level contracting positions, including at least 4-years of experience in contracting or related positions. At least 1 year of that experience must have been specialized experience at or equivalent to work at the next lower level of the position, and must have provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the work of the position.
and
B. A 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree, that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management.
C. Exceptions: Employees in GS-1102 positions will be considered to have met the standard for positions they occupy on January 1, 2000. This also applies to positions at the same grade in the same agency or other agencies if the specialized experience requirements are met. However, they will have to meet the basic requirements and specialized experience requirements in order to qualify for promotion to a higher grade, unless granted a waiver under Paragraph D.
D. Waiver: When filling a specific vacant position, the senior procurement executive of the selecting agency, at his or her discretion, may waive any or all of the requirements of Paragraphs A and B above if the senior procurement executive certifies that the applicant possesses significant potential for advancement to levels of greater responsibility and authority, based on demonstrated analytical and decision making capabilities, job performance, and qualifying experience. With respect to each waiver granted under this Paragraph D, the senior procurement executive must document for the record the basis of the waiver. If an individual is placed in a position in an agency on the basis of a waiver, the agency may later reassign that individual to another position at the same grade within that agency without additional waiver action. 

Do you meet the educational requirement as described above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Select the ONE statement from the list below that describes how you meet the basic education requirement for the GS-12 contracting position.
 A. I have a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with a major in any field.
 B. I have at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management.
 C. I am exempt from the educational requirement because I meet the following: Employees in GS-1102 positions will be considered to have met the standard for positions they occupy on January 1, 2000. Employees who occupy GS-1102 positions at grades 5 through 12 will be considered to meet the basic requirements for other GS-1102 positions up to and including those classified at GS-12. This includes positions at other agencies and promotions up through grade 12. However, employees must meet specialized experience requirements when seeking another position.
 D. I do not meet any of the above criteria.
3. Specialized experience for the GS-13 is one year (52 weeks) of experience at the GS-12 level or equivalent, that is directly related to the position as listed in this announcement and which has equipped the candidate with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience is defined as:

- Interpreting and implementing Federal Acquisition Regulations and Government, or equivalent, policies; AND
- Executing cradle to grave contracts related to the procurement of supplies & services; AND
- Serving as a project lead or senior specialist for contracting functions.

Select the choice below that best describes your specialized experience.
 A. I have one (1) year or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-12 level as described above.
 B. I do not have the specialized experience as described above.
4. Specialized experience for the GS-12 is one year (52 weeks) of experience at the GS-11 level or equivalent, that is directly related to the position as listed in this announcement and which has equipped the candidate with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience is defined as:

- Performing pre-awards/awards/post awards in accordance with Procurement regulations and processes; AND
- Purchasing or administering commercial items and services in accordance with Procurement regulations and processes.; AND
- Administering simplified acquisitions and contracts.

Select the choice below that best describes your specialized experience.


 A. I have one (1) year or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-11 level as described above.
 B. I do not have the specialized experience as described above.
5. A valid Defense Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act (DAWIA) certification is equivalent to a FAC-C at the same certification level, provided the FAC-C education and continuous learning requirements have been met. Are you certified at Level II, III, Professional or equivalent?

A copy of your certificate for verification must be submitted if you answer yes.



 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Select from the options below the highest level of a warrant or equivalent you have held.



 A. Simplified/ Basic up to $25,000
 B. Intermediate up to $10,000,000
 C. Senior/Unlimited - No dollar amount.
 D. I have not held a warrant or equivalent.
7. Select all choices below you have experience working with as it relates to procurement regulations and contracts.


 A. Simplifying acquisitions
 B. Routine modifications (such as option renewals, COTR changes)
 C. Administration of non-routine modifications (such as change orders, scope determinations)
 D. Issuing BPA (Blanket Purchase Agreement) calls or task or delivery orders against existing vehicles
 E. None of the above.
8. Please select all groups/people below which you have provided contracting and procurement advice.


 A. Senior staff members
 B. Program offices
 C. Contractors
 D. Department officials
 E. Other agencies and their field offices
 F. None of the above.
9. Select all responses that reflects the resource information you have analyzed to develop contracts and operating plans.


 A. Reporting Data
 B. Planning Data
 C. Forecasting Data
 D. Program Evaluation Data
 E. Capital project data
 F. None of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected