Position Title
ELECTRICIAN
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDB-25-12812404-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, October 6, 2025 to Tuesday, October 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Electrician position with the Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Electrician duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex electrical experience installing, repairing, modifying, troubleshooting, loading and testing new and existing electrical lines, circuits, systems, fixtures and controls, transformers, large motors, switchgear, lighting systems, controls, etc. I have performed the following duties, including complex projects: diagnosing, modifying, overhauling, repairing and maintaining a variety of electrical devices, equipment and components, i.e., transformer, generators, motors, etc. . I am skilled in modifying, overhauling, repairing and maintaining a variety of electrical devices, equipment and components. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of installing, repairing, modifying, troubleshooting, loading and testing new and existing electrical lines, circuits, systems, fixtures and controls. I am skilled in diagnosing, modifying, overhauling, repairing and maintaining a variety of electrical devices, equipment and components. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common electrical installing, repairing, modifying, troubleshooting, loading and testing new and existing electrical lines, circuits, systems, fixtures and controls. I can perform the following duties: diagnosing, modifying, overhauling, repairing and maintaining a variety of electrical devices, equipment and components. I work under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple electrical problems or I have received training on performing full range of the electrical trade, adequately handling priorities and meeting schedules and deadlines.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙