Position Title
Volunteer Law Student - Summer 2026
Agency
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
Announcement Number
FRTIB-25-SV-001-12783360 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 22, 2025 to Friday, September 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you currently enrolled at least half-time in an accredited educational institution?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Are you at least 16 years of age?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Please select one response that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for this position.
 A. I am currently enrolled in an accredited law school and have already completed at least one year of law school.
 B. I am currently enrolled in an accredited law school and will have completed at least one year of law school upon completion of the 2025-26 school year.
 C. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. I understand that in order to be eligible for this position, I must have a cumulative grade point average of 2.5 or higher on a 4.0 scale at the completion of the 2025-26 school year.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. At the time of this appoinment (Summer 2026), I will be continuing my education through either the Summer or Fall 2026 semester/quarter?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Please specify your anticipated graduation date.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected