Position Title
RECORDS & INFO MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST (KNOWELEDGE MANAGEMENT) (Title 32)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TX-12744798-AF Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 4, 2025 to Sunday, September 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
9
11
2. Are you a current member of the state National Guard for which this position is being advertised, or are you willing and eligible to become a member?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. For positions requiring the operation of motor vehicles, candidates must have a valid state driver's license for the state in which they live or are principally employed. Do you meet this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Answer each question to the best of your ability and knowledge. Responses will be verified against your Resume and may be adjusted based on the results of your application review.
1. What is your current Federal Technician or Military status? Please make an appropriate choice.

 A. I am currently a Permanent, Indefinite, or Temporary Federal Technician with the Texas Air National Guard.
 B. I am currently a traditional member of the Texas Air National Guard.
 C. I am currently a member of another component or prior member eligible to become a Texas Air National Guard member.
 D. I am a civilian with no military experience.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. Are you an SSgt (E-5) not to exceed MSgt (E-7)? Members of another branch of service, or prior service members should ensure they are eligible and willing to join the Texas Air National Guard in the rank of SSgt (E-5) not to exceed MSgt (E-7)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. From the statements below, select the one response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to meeting the Qualification Requirement for the RECORDS & INFO MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST (KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT) GS-0308-09 position.
 A. I possess at least 1 year equivalent to at least next lower grade level (GS-07) with experience, education with knowledge of the principles, concepts, and theories of Knowledge Management, and the standard practices, methods, and techniques of the occupation sufficient to perform difficult, but well-precedented assignments. AND Knowledge of analysis, evaluation, fact-finding, and investigative techniques in order to gather data, identify significant factors, and recommend a solution from several possible alternatives. AND Knowledge of the occupation to perform studies and prepare reports, documentation, and correspondence to communicate factual and procedural information clearly. AND Skills in applying the principles, concepts, and practices of the occupation sufficient to perform moderately difficult assignments. AND Ability to communicate clearly, concisely, and with technical accuracy, both orally and in writing, as well as work in an appropriate manner with peers and management. AND The ability to learn and apply analytical investigative techniques to accomplish work in the subject-matter field.
 B. I possess a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related. Only experience/education gained by closing date of this position will be considered. I understand that by selecting this option, I must provide transcripts with my application documents.
 C. I possess a combination of successfully completed post-high school education and experience that may be used to meet total qualification requirements. Only experience/education gained by closing date of this position will be considered. I understand that by selecting this option, I must provide transcripts with my application documents.
 D. I do not meet any of the qualification requirements listed above.
4. From the statements below, select the one response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to meeting the Qualification Requirement for the RECORDS & INFO MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST (KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT) GS-0308-11 position.
 A. I possess at least 1 year equivalent to at least next lower grade level (GS-09) with experience, education knowledge require skill in applying analytical and evaluative techniques to the identification, consideration, and resolution of issues or problems of a procedural or factual nature. The issues or problems deal with readily observable conditions (e.g., office or shop layout, workflow, or working conditions), written guidelines covering work methods and procedures such as performance and production standards, and information of a factual nature (e.g., number and type of units produced or capability of equipment). Included at this level is knowledge of the theory and principles of management and organization, including administrative practices and procedures common to organizations, such as those pertaining to areas of responsibility, channels of communication, delegation of authority, routing of correspondence, filing systems, and storage of files and records. Assignments typically involve using qualitative and quantitative analytical techniques such as literature search; work measurement; task analysis and job structuring; productivity charting; determining staff to workload ratios (e.g., span of control); organization design; space planning; development and administration of questionnaires; flowcharting of work processes; graphing; and calculation of means, modes, standard deviations, or similar statistical measures. Assignments require skill in conducting interviews with supervisors and employees to obtain information about organizational missions, functions, and work procedures.
 B. I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. Only experience/education gained by closing date of this position will be considered. I understand that by selecting this option, I must provide transcripts with my application documents.
 C. I possess a combination of successfully completed post-high school education and experience that may be used to meet total qualification requirements. Only graduate education in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be used to qualify applicants for positions at grades GS-9 and GS-11. I understand that by selecting this option, I must provide transcripts with my application documents.
 D. I do not meet any of the qualification requirements listed above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. Do you currently possess one of the following primary or secondary compatible AFSC? Or are you eligible and able to complete the AFSC qualifications and requirements to fall within the listed Compatible Military Assignment by the date of your appointment?

Compatible AFSC: 1D771P Open to cross trainees
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Please type your current rank and AFSC in the space provided below. If you are a member of another branch of service, please include your branch, rank and military specialty. Prior service members should include their last rank held and military specialty. Civilians should type "N/A".

Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
7. Must be certified IAW DoD 8570.01-M, Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002, Clinger Cohen Act of 1996 and obtain Special Experience Identifier (SEI) 264, IAW current AF directives. Information Assurance - Technical Level II (IAT II), IAW current AF directives. Do you agree to this condition of employment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Do you currently have a Secret security clearance, or are you able to acquire and maintain a Secret security clearance within the first year of employment?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Your responses in this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency, if selected. Review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses for accuracy, and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected