Position Title
Administrative Support Assistant (OA) - Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Interior, Bureau of Indian Affairs
Announcement Number
DHA-25-12760151-CBXH-DN Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 10, 2025 to Friday, July 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This position is subject to the Indian Preference Act of 1934 (25 U.S.C. 472), which affords employment preference to qualified Native American candidates.  Proof of eligibility, in the form of a completed Verification of Indian Preference, BIA - 4432 Form, must be provided with your application by the closing date to be granted such preference.  

Are you claiming Indian Preference, and submitting your BIA-4432 Form?
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
5
6
7
Assessment 1
Preference in filling vacancies is given to qualified Indian candidates in accordance with the Indian Preference Act of 1934 (Title 25, USC, Section 472). Verification of Form BIA-4432 must be submitted with the application if claiming Indian Preference. Indian Preference eligibles that are not currently employed with the Federal service will be appointed under the Excepted Service Appointment Authority Schedule A, 213.3112(A)(7).
1. Are you submitting Form BIA-4432, Verification of Indian Preference for Employment in the Bureau of Indian Affairs, to claim Indian Preference? Note: You must include your Form BIA-4432. As outlined in the vacancy announcement, this is the ONLY Indian Preference Verification Form that will be accepted.

 A. Yes, I am submitting Form BIA-4432.
 B. No, I am not claiming Indian preference. I understand that if there are qualified Indian Preference applicants I will not be considered, regardless of qualifications.
Incumbent may be required to operate a government-owned or leased motor vehicle in the performance of duties therefore, a valid driver's license will be required.
2. Do you possess a valid Driver's License?

 A. Yes.
 B. No.
For all positions titled as Office Automation or any clerical positions which has parenthetical title of Office Automation (OA), applicants must have typing proficiency of 40 words per minute and knowledge of general office automation software, such as, word processing, personal computer, electronic mail, database management, spreadsheet, etc. NOTE: Falsification of this certification may be used as grounds for not employing you or for dismissal.
3. Do you certify that you are proficient in typing and type at least 40 words per minute and are knowledgeable of general office automation software such as, word processing, personal computers, electronic mail, database management, and spreadsheets?

 A. Yes, I type 40 or more words per minute and meet the typing and office automation proficiency requirements as outlined above.
 B. No, I do not meet the typing and office automation proficiency requirement as outlined above.
You must meet the specialized experience requirements for GS-0303 comparable in scope and responsibility to the next lower level in the federal service. Please note that your answers may be verified against the information you provide in your resume/application and information your references provide. The quality, type, and scope of your experience and/or training must demonstrate that you are fully qualified to perform the duties of the position to be filled. Be sure you describe your background as it relates to the duties of this position since your application or resume must support the response you select. In addition, if qualifying based on education, you must submit a complete, legible copy of your official college or university transcript(s) with your application to document academic achievements and receive credit.
4. Carefully read the following descriptions of experience and education. Select the one that best describes your qualifications for GS-5 Staff Support Assistant. Make sure your resume supports your response that you select. (NOTE: If qualifying based on education, you must submit a complete, legible copy of your official college or university transcript(s) with your application to document academic achievements and receive credit.).
 A. I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-5 grade level in the Federal service. This experience must include 3 of the 5 activities: 1) preparing and reviewing correspondence and reports; 2) processing time and attendance records; 3) maintaining office filing systems; 4) arranging conferences, meetings, and training sessions; and 5)working and communicating with customers.
 B. I have successfully completed 4 years of education above high school level in any field at an accredited business, secretarial or technical school, junior college, college or university. One year of full-time academic study is defined as 30 semester hours, 45 quarter hours, or the equivalent in a college or university, or at least 20 hours of classroom instruction per week for approximately 36 weeks in a business, secretarial, or technical school.
 C. I have a combination of specialized experience as described in A and education as described in B which totals 100% of the requirement for 1 year of specialized experience. The equivalent of 30 semester hours or 45 quarter hours (beyond the 2nd year of attendance) is equivalent to 6 months of specialized experience.
 D. None of the above describes my qualifications for this position, but I am eager to learn.
5. Carefully read the following descriptions of experience and education. Select the one that best describes your qualifications for GS-6 Staff Support Assistant. Make sure your resume supports your response that you select.

 A. I have at least 1 year of full-time specialized experience or the equivalent, comparable to at least the GS-5 in the Federal Service (obtained in either the public or private sector). This experience must include 3 of the 7 activities: 1.) receiving visitors and telephone calls to direct inquiry to appropriate personnel; 2.) maintaining activity calendar, organizing conferences, meetings and training sessions; 3.) proficient in utilizing Microsoft Office to generate correspondence, electronic forms, spreadsheets and other electronic tracking records; 4.) monitors suspense dates for program related material, inquiries and projects to ensure completion by established due dates; 5.) coordinating travel arrangements and processing vouchers; 6.) assisting with budget activities including reconciling charge card transactions, recording data in the automated budget tracking system; 7.) prepares purchase requests for office supplies, equipment or services; 8.) maintaining office filing systems.
 B. None of the above describes my qualifications for this position, but I am eager to learn.
6. Carefully read the following descriptions of experience and education. Select the one that best describes your qualifications for GS-7 Staff Support Assistant. Make sure your resume supports your response that you select. (As a general rule, education is not creditable above GS-5, however, graduate education may be credited in those few instances where the graduate education is directly related to the work of the position.)
 A. In addition to the requirements at the lower grade level(s), I have at least 1 year of full-time specialized experience or the equivalent, comparable to at least the GS-6 in the Federal Service (obtained in either the public or private sector). This experience must include 6 of the 11 activities: 1.) proficiently utilize Microsoft Office programs and other automated systems for creating travel authorizations; 2.) reviewing travel vouchers; 3.) maintaining time and attendance records; 4.) monitoring financial data; 5.) maintaining program budget activities,; 6.) charge card transactions; 7.) inventory management; 8.) processing purchase requests and generating reports; 9.) coordinating and compiling program data from various resources for reporting purposes and monitoring multiple tasks, or projects to ensure completion by established due dates; 10.) providing guidance or assisting others with budget support activities, travel regulations, time and attendance procedures, charge card policy, inventory management process, and records management schedules; 11.) review purchase requests to ensure proper formatting for the review and approval process.
 B. None of the above describes my qualifications for this position, but I am eager to learn.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency during the probation period. Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning; 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy; and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.
7. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected