Position Title
ASSET FORFEITURE SPECIALIST
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
USBP-IMP-12758481-JRB Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 9, 2025 to Tuesday, July 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1.
Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from DHS?  If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under non-temporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
3. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
4. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
5. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
6. This position requires the ability to operate a Government Owned Vehicle. Do you have a valid, non-restricted driver's license or will you be able to obtain a valid, non-restricted driver's license before the time of appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. If selected for this position, you must successfully complete a multi-week training at a designated training facility as outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement. Failure to successfully complete the required training course(s) in accordance with the standards and policies of Customs and Border Protection will be grounds for removal from the position. Such failure will result in either reassignment to a former or different position, demotion, or separation by appropriate procedures.

If you have previously attended this training, the requirement may be waived. If you answer "no" to the training agreement acknowledgment question below, you will be removed from further consideration for this position.

Do you acknowledge the training requirement and agree to the terms outlined in the job opportunity announcement and above?
 A. Yes, I confirm that I understand and agree to the term as outlined in the job opportunity announcement and above.
 B. No, I do not agree to the training requirement terms and understand that I will be removed from further consideration for this position.
Assessment 1
The following question will only be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-13 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes: Interpreting case law and guidelines on asset forfeiture affecting USBP and the Asset Forfeiture program; Acting as an Agency Representative for vehicle seizure and transfer and enforcing the national seized property contractor’s compliance with the Statement of Work (SOW); Serving as an expert on SEACATS data entry from case initiation to property storage and transfer; Analyzing and resolving major conflicts in policy and program objectives, and developing and implementing new policies and methods; Monitoring, reviewing, and analyzing reports associated with seized/forfeited asset related accounts, reviewing and maintaining invoices and receipts of seized/forfeited assets associated with said accounts.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
2. Do you have knowledge of Federal laws and regulations associated with asset forfeiture?

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Indicate the extent to which you have had experience in interpreting, understanding, and applying the proper administrative policies, procedures and operating guides to perform your work.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have interpreted and applied the proper administrative policies and operating guides to perform my work based on direct instruction from my supervisor.
 C. I have independently selected, interpreted, and applied the proper administrative procedures or operating guides to perform my work.
 D. I have trained others on selecting, interpreting, and applying the proper administrative procedures or operating guides to perform their work.
4. Indicate the extent of your experience advising internal and external stakeholders of potentially controversial findings, issues, and problems with widespread impact.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have advised my supervisor of potentially controversial findings, issues, and problems with widespread impact.
 C. I have advised internal stakeholders of potentially controversial findings, issues, and problems with widespread impact, and I have provided suggestions to mitigate the issues.
 D. I have advised internal and external stakeholders of potentially controversial findings, issues, and problems with widespread impact and I have provided suggestions to mitigate the issues. My suggestions on how to mitigate the issues were implemented and used to prevent future issues.
5. Indicate the extent of your experience gathering and analyzing data and/or fact finding from various sources (e.g., databases, internal programs, online research) to direct and advise personnel.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have analyzed data gathered from various sources (e.g., databases, internal programs, online research), but did not use the information to direct or advise personnel.
 C. I have analyzed data gathered from various sources (e.g., databases, internal programs, online research) and made suggestions to my team lead or supervisor on how to direct and advise personnel.
 D. I have directed and advised personnel using information gathered from various sources (e.g., databases, internal programs, online research).
6. Indicate the extent of your experience monitoring, reviewing, and analyzing reports.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in monitoring and reviewing reports created by team members.
 C. I have independently monitored and reviewed reports created by program stakeholders within my organization.
 D. I have monitored, reviewed, and analyzed reports created by internal and external program stakeholders.
 E. I have monitored, reviewed, and analyzed reports and identified areas of weakness within a program that required changes to policy or procedure.
7. Indicate the extent of your experience interpreting guidelines based on current processes, structural realignments, or case law.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have provided my interpretations of guidelines based on current processes, structural realignments, or case law during routine meetings within my work group.
 C. I have interpreted guidelines based on current processes, structural realignments, and case law as part of my normal duties.
 D. I have interpreted guidelines based on current processes, structural realignments, and case law and advised senior leaders in my organization on a course of action.
8. Indicate the extent of your experience processing and preparing Equitable Seizure Program packages.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in preparing Equitable Seizure Program packages.
 C. I have independently prepared Equitable Seizure Program packages and ensured regulations and procedures were followed.
 D. I have independently prepared Equitable Seizure Program packages and reviewed packages prepared by others to ensure all regulations and procedures were followed.
9. Indicate the extent of your experience tracking assets and inventory for your organization.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in tracking assets and inventory in my work unit. I have created and updated records as needed.
 C. I have had the responsibility of tracking assets and inventory in my work unit as part of my normal duties. I have created and updated the appropriate records as needed.
 D. I have created records management procedures to track assets and inventory in my organization. I update the tools used to track assets as needed.
10. Indicate the extent of your experience planning and organizing your own work and the work of others to meet deadlines and complete assignments.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have completed my work according to specific instructions given to me by my supervisors. I have met deadlines and completed my assignments.
 C. I have organized my own work involving mostly recurring assignments. I have updated or adapted deadlines based on project needs to complete assignments.
 D. I have prioritized and planned my own work, as well as the work of others. I have taken into account changing priorities and assignments to meet deadlines.
 E. I have met tight timelines to complete assignments by monitoring my work unit's progress, adjusting priorities, and ensuring adherence to deadlines.
11. Indicate the extent of your experience serving as a technical expert in your organization.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have provided informal information, when asked, about a program.
 C. I have represented my office as the technical expert of a program in workgroups internal to my organization.
 D. I have represented my organization as the technical expert of a program in internal and external workgroups, presentations, and meetings.
12. Indicate the extent of your experience ensuring programs are compliant with policies, procedures, guidelines, and strategies.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have completed basic reviews of the policies, procedures, guidelines, and strategies of a program and assisted others in ensuring the program was compliant.
 C. I have ensured programs are compliant with the most current policy, procedure, guideline, or strategy. I have conducted in-depth reviews of the policies and procedures and implemented necessary changes.
 D. I have anticipated changes to policies, procedures, guidelines, and strategies based on interactions with program shareholders and prepared changes to programs in anticipation of the changes.
13. Indicate the extent of your experience providing assistance to leadership and satellite offices.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted my work group, up to my supervisor, with various tasks but have no experience working with satellite offices.
 C. I have assisted leadership at various levels within my organization with various tasks and have worked with one or two satellite offices.
 D. I have assisted senior leaders in my organization and coordinated activities with three to ten satellite offices.
 E. I have assisted senior leaders in my organization and coordinated activities with more then ten satellite offices.
14. Indicate the extent of your experience maintaining relationships with internal and external stakeholders while providing advice and guidance.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have provided advice and guidance, both orally and in writing, to employees in my work unit.
 C. I have maintained relationships with people in other departments and provided advice and guidance, both orally and in writing, when appropriate.
 D. I have maintained relationships with internal and external stakeholders and provided advice and guidance, both orally and in writing. When appropriate, I have adapted my communications to the level of the target audience.
15. Indicate the extent to which you have had experience in applying the proper administrative policies, procedures and operating guides to perform your work.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have applied the proper administrative policies and operating guides to perform my work based on direct instruction from my supervisor.
 C. I have independently selected and applied the proper administrative procedures or operating guides to perform my work.
 D. I have trained others on selecting, interpreting, and applying the proper administrative procedures or operating guides to perform their work.
16. Indicate the extent of your experience in expressing facts and ideas in writing.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written short responses to routine requests for information.
 C. I have written portions of one or more reports, information papers, and other documents (technical and non-technical).
 D. I have independently composed written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, and other complete documents based on study findings and results of analyses.
 E. I have independently completed formal written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, and other complete documents based on study findings and results of analyses. I have successfully tailored written information to the technical knowledge of my audience.
17. Indicate the extent to which you have orally presented information to all levels of employees, management, and/or other departments or programs.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have notified supervisors, managers, or offices orally of decisions, problems, or further actions needed. In addition, I have informally explained the organization’s mission, programs, or services to others.
 C. I have given formal presentations at departmental/organizational briefings and meetings, and acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations.
 D. I have given formal presentations at departmental/organizational briefings and meetings of technical material that was often controversial or sensitive. I have adapted my explanations to the level of the target audience.
 E. I have given formal presentations to multi-agency workgroups of technical material that was often controversial or sensitive. I have adapted my explanations to the level of the target audience.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected