Position Title
Chief Pharmacy Service
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTD-12779706-25-HV Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 13, 2025 to Wednesday, August 27, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
7.

SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action (for Eligibility and/or Time-in-Grade):

Most recent SF-50 if you are a current or former Federal employee
Examples of appropriate SF-50's include:
Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or
Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or
SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with VA New England Healthcare system. All required documentation must be submitted prior to closing of vacancy announcement. Please refer to required documents section on how to submit a complete application package. The following documents is required: USAJOBS Resume or resume that meets Federal employment criteria.
The following section is used to determine your eligibility for appointment in the Federal Government. Failure to respond to these questions may result in an ineligible rating. Please choose A (Yes) or B (No) for each of the following items to identify which of the following descriptions applies to you.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Citizenship Requirement: Are you a Citizen of the United States? (Noncitizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3g, this part.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Language Requirement: Are you proficient in spoken and written English? (Pharmacists must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), and 7407(d).
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Licensure Requirement: Do you have a current, full, and unrestricted license to practice pharmacy in a State, Territory, Commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or District of Columbia?

Note: To receive credit you must submit a copy of your current, full, and unrestricted license.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Education Requirement: Are you a graduate of an Accreditation Council for Pharmacy Education (ACPE) accredited College or School of Pharmacy with a baccalaureate degree in Pharmacy (BS Pharmacy) and/or a Doctor of Pharmacy (Pharm.D.) degree?

Note: Please submit a copy of your transcripts showing when your degree was conferred in order to receive credit. (We do accept unofficial transcript for proof)
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a graduate of a foreign pharmacy degree program that meets the educational requirement and able to provide proof of achieving the Foreign Pharmacy Graduate Examination Commission (FPGEC) Certification, which includes passing the Foreign Pharmacy Graduate Equivalency Examination (FPGEE) and the Test of English as a Foreign Language Internet-Based Test (TOEFL iBT)?
 A. Yes, I am a foreign pharmacy degree graduate and I am able to provide the appropriate documentation (i.e. FPGEC, FPGEE, and TOEFL iBT).
 B. Yes, I am a foreign pharmacy degree graduate and I do not possess the appropriate documentation (i.e. FPGEC, FPGEE, and TOEFL iBT).
 C. Not Applicable.
In addition to meeting the basic requirements for the Associate Service Chief of Pharmacy Operations occupational series, a candidate must also meet the qualification standards for the grade(s) as specified below:
6. Grade Determination for the Chief Pharmacy Service, GS-15:

Experience: In addition to the GS-14 requirements, must have 1 year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level.

Grade Level Criteria: At the GS-15 level, Chiefs of Pharmacy must meet the following:
Individuals are assigned as Chiefs of Pharmacy at Complexity Level 1a, 1b or 1c VHA facilities; or
Individuals are assigned as Chief of Pharmacy at Complexity Levels 2 or 3 and must meet the criteria noted in 2a and b below.
a. Must meet all of the following requirements:
(1) Manages a complex medical center based pharmacy program that is defined as having multiple practice settings (e.g. hospital ambulatory care, long-term care, behavior health care) that require Joint Commission review as separate standards.
In addition to the medical center pharmacy, has responsibility for pharmacy services at one or more of the following: CBOCs, Rural Health Program, domiciliary, or provides dispensing and/or clinical services to State Veterans Home.
Presence of advanced clinical pharmacy programs that include pharmacist(s) that have approved scopes of practice with prescriptive privileges.
Pharmacy provides clinical pharmacist services to three (3) or more specialty areas such as, but not limited to, hemodialysis, oncology, operating room or an emergency department.
b. In addition to the requirements listed in 2a above, must meet at least two of the following:
An ASHP Accredited Pharmacy Residency Program.
A Research Program that is accredited by the Association for the Accreditation of Human Research Protection Programs (AAHRPP).
Actively involved in committees or advisory/work groups at the VISN and/or National level.
An ongoing pharmacy student rotation in both the intermediate and advanced practice experience settings.
Do you meet the required experience and knowledge, skills, and abilities as specified for the Chief Pharmacy Service, GS-15?
 A. Yes I meet the requirements stated above.
 B. No: My application does not meet requirements stated above.
The Veterans Health Administration recognizes the Accreditation Council for Pharmacy Education (ACPE) as the accrediting body for pharmacy education. If your schooling does not appear on their site as being accredited with the corresponding year of your graduation; it is the applicant's responsibility to contact the Accreditation Council for Pharmacy Education (ACPE). The applicant will need to receive confirmation by the ACPE of your schooling's accreditation at the time of graduation and upload this documentation prior to the announcement's closing; failure to do so may result in being found ineligible for further consideration.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected