Position Title
Supervisory Contract Specialist
Agency
Federal Emergency Management Agency
Announcement Number
FEMA-TC-12798807-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 12, 2025 to Friday, September 19, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. The following three questions will be used to determine your eligibility for consideration under this job opportunity announcement. Please select YES to all eligibility question(s) which apply. If you're uncertain you meet an eligibility, we suggest answering yes. Your application will only be considered under the applicable eligibilities you have selected. If you respond NO to all eligibility questions below, your application will not be considered under this announcement. NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration for EACH selected eligibility. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will not be considered. Instructions
1. Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)

Are you a current or former FEMA Stafford Act employee eligible under the Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)?

Current and former FEMA Stafford Act employees who can document 64 or more hours of paid time, per pay period, with no breaks in service* for 78 or more consecutive pay periods since August 1, 2014, are eligible to be considered for this Merit Promotion Job Opportunity Announcement. (*Note: A "break in service" is defined as 3 or more days in non-pay status, except as allowed under 5 CFR § 315.201(b)(3)(ii) for special circumstances such as military deployment, etc.).

To verify eligibility, you must submit: 
"Notice of DRRA Eligibility" provided by OCHCO.  If you believe you're eligible, but have not received your notice, please reach out to the HR Specialist listed in the announcement.
Your FEMA SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your appointment in the excepted service under the Stafford Act.  We recommend attaching a SF-50 which indicates your highest grade and step.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Current FEMA Employee

Are you a current FEMA employee who currently holds OR has previously held a permanent (not time limited) position in the competitive service?

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your permanent competitive status.  Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions.  You may need to submit more than one SF-50.  Your SF-50 must reflect:
Block 24 - Tenure:  1 - Permanent (career) or 2 - Conditional: AND
Block 34 - Position Occupied:  1 - Competitive Service
If you previously held a career or career conditional appointment, you must provide your current SF-50 and your SF-50 which shows competitive status eligibility.
Please do not submit an award SF-50, as it might not indicate your grade level and step.  
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. FEMA Employees Only Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)
Are you a current or former FEMA employee who is considered displaced or surplus (you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction in Force)?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, your most recent performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. How did you hear about this Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) job opportunity?
 A. USAJOBS
 B. FEMA's Social Media (Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Online Job board (Indeed, Zip Recruiter, etc.)
 D. FEMA.gov Careers Website
 E. FEMA Virtual Hiring Event
 F. FEMA On-Site Hiring Event
 G. College/University/Alumni Organization
 H. FEMA Employee Referral
 I. Other
2. Are you a retiree receiving a federal annuity (either military or civilian)? Or have you accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years? (Select all that apply.)
 A. Yes, I'm receiving a military annuity.
 B. Yes, I'm receiving a civilian annuity.
 C. Yes, I've received a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
 D. No, I am not receiving a federal annuity and have not accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
3. Are you a current FEMA employee?
 A. I'm a current FEMA Local Hire Employee
 B. I'm a current FEMA Reservist Employee
 C. I'm a current FEMA CORE Employee
 D. I'm a current FEMA PFT Employee
 E. I'm a current FEMA Senior Executive Service Employee
 F. I'm not a current FEMA Employee
4. Are you currently serving, or have served within the last five years, as a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) employee in the Executive Branch?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Please provide the following information regarding your political appointment(s): 1. Official Title of Position; 2. Type of Appointment (i.e. Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career SES); 3. Name of Agency; 4. Date Position began; and 5. Date Position ended. (NOTE: If you have never held a political appointment, please enter N/A.)
6. Within the past five years, have you received a buyout or payment through the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment Authority (VSIP) when separating from a federal position?
 A. No
 B. Yes, and I understand candidates who are reemployed with the federal government within five years after receiving a buyout or payment under VSIP are required to repay the entire amount of the incentive prior to their onboarding date.
7. Did you elect to voluntarily resign or retire through the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) or Workforce Transition Program (WTP)
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?

Select "Not Applicable" if this question does not apply to you.
 A. Yes
 B. No, but I have an exemption
 C. I am a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, and have NOT registered with the Selective Service System and do NOT have an exemption.
 D. Not Applicable
2. All FEMA employees are subject to 24-hour on-call in the event of an emergency and all Federal employees may be subject to emergency deployment. In the event of an emergency deployment, travel requirements may be extensive in nature (weeks to months), with little advance notice, and may require relocation to emergency sites, some of which are quite austere. The length of deployment may last anywhere from days to months, depending upon the nature of the emergency or disaster.

Every FEMA employee is considered an emergency manager and each employee has regular and recurring emergency management responsibilities, although not every position requires routine deployment to disaster sites. Your emergency management duties may vary depending on the needs of the Agency, your particular skills, and certain personal circumstances. All positions may require irregular work hours, work at locations other than the official duty station, and may include duties other than those specified in the employee's official position description.

Are you able to meet this commitment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

In order to be hired for this position, applicants must undergo and successfully pass a background investigation. This may include a review of financial issues, such as delinquency, child support and/or tax obligations, as well as certain criminal offenses and illegal use of or possession of drugs.

Are you willing to undergo a background investigation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
For instructions: Your responses to the questions below will be used in the evaluation of your qualifications for this position. Your resume and application materials must support the level of experience and/or education you claim in this questionnaire, If, after a complete review of your application package, a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications, you may be rated in eligible for this position.
1. Please indicate where and when you obtained each of the specialized experience requirements listed in the Qualifications section of this Job Opportunity Announcement. Include in your response: (1) the area of specialized experience; (2) the place of employment; and, (3) the specific dates of employment the experience was gained in MM/DD/YYYY - MM/DD/YYYY format. Your response must be supported by your resume. Example: Experience in developing and delivering presentations and training; ABC Company; 10/01/2016 - 05/15/2018.
2. Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR): Select the response that best describes your education and experience.
 A. Completion of all mandatory training prescribed by the head of the agency for progression to GS-13 or higher level contracting positions, including at least 4-years experience in contracting or related positions. At least 1 year of that experience must have been specialized experience at or equivalent to work at the next lower level of the position, and must have provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the work of the position. AND A 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree, that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management.
 B. I am an employee in a GS-1102 since January 1, 2000 and therefore have met the standards of the Individual Occupational Requirements by exception.
 C. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.
3.

FAC-C Certification: I have a FAC-C Professional certification or DoD Contracting Professional certification or FAC-C Level I or DAWIA (Contracting) Level I or higher certification.  Please note, you must attach the certficiate/certification to your application to support your response.

 

 A. Yes; failure to attach your certification will result in an ineligible rating.
 B. No
4. I have at least one (1) year of experience equivalent to at least next lower grade level as outlined in the job announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience managing the solicitation process.
 A. I have selected the appropriate contract type for specific services.
 B. I have identified the method of award for a contract.
 C. I have analyzed pricing for goods and services.
 D. I have recommended minimum or maximum order limitations.
 E. I have analyzed terms and conditions of previous contracts.
 F. I have organized and conducted site visits to meet solicitation requirements.
 G. I have uploaded solicitations and solicitation amendments to the Government Point of Entry (GPE) website (e.g., FedBizOps).
 H. I have applied wage determinations for solicitation requirements.
 I. I have worked with a program office to refine evaluation factors.
 J. None of the above.
6. Have you evaluated proposals to ensure that they are performed according to the terms and conditions of the solicitation?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Have you performed the contract procurement closeout process?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Have you served as contracting advisor to the program managers for contracting policies and regulations, including performance-based acquisitions?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience with market analysis.
 A. I have conducted a price/cost analysis based on current market.
 B. I have provided technical guidance to programs regarding the acquisition and use of funds.
 C. I have formulated recommendations for statement of work requirements based on market research.
 D. I have developed a justification for recommendations resulting from a market analysis.
 E. I have supported others in presenting recommendations resulting from a market analysis.
 F. I have presented recommendations to senior management resulting from a market analysis.
 G. I have developed justifications in the form of a Determination and Findings (D&F) resulting from a market analysis.
 H. I have developed an approval of the justification.
 I. I have completed a Small Business Determination form.
 J. None of the above.
10. What is/was the highest procurement warrant you have held within the past three years?
 A. Unlimited
 B. Unlimited in only some categories
 C. Limited, but above the simplified acquisition procedures threshold (SAP)
 D. SAP Only
 E. None of the above
11. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience with various types of oral communication.
 A. I have served as a point of contact on procedural matters.
 B. I have served as a liaison to convey information.
 C. I have presented possible solutions to problems within the organization to internal individuals or groups.
 D. I have responded to inquiries or requests for information.
 E. I have explained non-technical information.
 F. I have explained technical information.
 G. I have contacted others to obtain information.
 H. I have developed delivered presentations to external audiences on work-related topics.
 I. None of the above.
12. Please select the statement(s) that describe your experience in communicating in writing.
 A. I have prepared legal briefs, memoranda and/or opinions.
 B. I have prepared legal analysis, summaries or justifications, investigative reports, and/or articles in writing for senior management.
 C. I have answered or drafted responses to congressional correspondence, investigative reports, and/or audits.
 D. I have not performed any of the above tasks.
13. Choose the statement(s) that best describe your communication/briefing skills that you use as a regular part of your job to support organizational goals and leadership.
 A. Regularly communicate legal issues, risks or conclusions orally to senior management.
 B. Explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations orally to senior management.
 C. Defend client-partner's position to third parties performing oversight review of programs.
 D. Foster cooperation and consensus among groups in furthering organizational goals.
 E. Build consensus through collaboration from others to obtain information, achieve results and accomplish goals.
 F. None of the above.
14. From the list below, select the type(s) of customer(s) with whom you have experience maintaining customer relationships.
 A. I have maintained customer relationships with representatives from other Federal Agencies.
 B. I have maintained customer relationships with the general public.
 C. I have maintained customer relationships with senior executives.
 D. I have maintained customer relationships with mid-level managers.
 E. I have maintained customer relationships with internal customers.
 F. I have maintained customer relationships with faith-based groups.
 G. I have maintained customer relationships with officials from volunteer organizations.
 H. I have maintained customer relationships with elected officials.
 I. None of the above.
15. Choose the statement that best describes your experience providing customer support services.
 A. I have no experience providing customer support services.
 B. I have provided customer support services as directed by others.
 C. I have led planning activities that resulted in customer support programs implemented throughout the organization.
 D. I have developed and interpreted policies, procedures, and strategies governing delivery of all customer support services.
 E. None of the above
16. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience representing your organization.
 A. I have assisted in representing my organization in individual interactions with prospective employees who wanted to learn about the organization.
 B. I have represented my organization to small groups of existing or potential customers who are affected by my organization’s mission.
 C. I have assisted in representing my organization to large groups of customers or the public when presenting information about products or services.
 D. I have assisted in representing my organization to large groups of customers or the public when dealing with conflicts or problems related to my organizations’ products or services.
 E. None of the above.
17. Do you have experience representing a supervisor at Departmental, organizational, or external events?
 A. Yes
 B. No
18. Do you have experience representing your organization to external audiences?
 A. Yes
 B. No
19. Select the response(s) that best describe(s) the individuals you have interacted with:
 A. Senior managers/supervisors from within your agency or office.
 B. Co-workers from within your agency or office.
 C. Contractor personnel (i.e. owners, project managers, superintendents, foremen, laborers, craftsmen, etc).
 D. None of the above.
20. Select all applicable activities that you have regularly performed and which demonstrate your skill in developing and enhancing working partnerships and resolving issues.
 A. Provide frequent legal briefings to senior officials or leadership on legal issues and recommend solutions to problems.
 B. Prepare and present legal briefings and/or training activities to a variety of audiences.
 C. Work closely with managers to resolve legal problems, analyze alternatives, negotiate differences, or develop improvements.
 D. Explain or justify legal decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations.
 E. Represent an organizational program in discussions with individuals or groups who may be skeptical or in disagreement and require skill to influence, motivate, question or otherwise gain the desired outcome.
 F. None of the above.
21. Choose the response(s) that best describe(s) your experience working on a team or as a team leader. (Select all that apply.)
 A. I monitored the performance and/or implementation of projects/studies as a team member.
 B. I monitored the performance and/or implementation of projects/studies as a team leader.
 C. None of the above.
22. Do you possess experience planning, assigning and/or establishing work priorities for a staff?
 A. Yes
 B. No
23. Choose the statement(s) that best describe your experience assigning, reviewing, coordinating, and/or managing work requests for tasks assigned to contract staff.
 A. I have reviewed and approved work deliverables.
 B. I have assigned work requests.
 C. I have reviewed and approved project work plans.
 D. I have set and adjusted work priorities for contract staff.
 E. I have negotiated project costs submitted by the contractor.
 F. I have negotiated changes to requirements between the system owner and contractor staff.
 G. I have reviewed contractor change management processes.
 H. I have analyzed work requests from system owners prior to assigning contract staff.
 I. None of the above.
24. Do you have at least one year of experience monitoring program delivery and employee performance across multiple field offices or locations?
 A. Yes
 B. No
25. Are you now or have you served as a team leader or supervisor?
 A. Created a culture that fosters high standards of ethics
 B. Developed strategies to maximize employee potential
 C. Resolved conflicts
 D. Motivated employees
 E. Recognized staff contributions
 F. None of the above
26. From the list below, identify the complex human resources issue(s) you have managed.
 A. Recruitment
 B. Benefits
 C. Compensation
 D. Employee Relations
 E. Labor Relations
 F. Performance Management
 G. None of the above
27. From the list below, Select the response(s) that best describe(s) your experience leading a workforce or team in the delivery of work programs or projects.
 A. Led a large (20 or more) workforce of varying professional disciplines, technical disciplines, and/or administrative staff.
 B. Led team members to accomplish a specific project.
 C. Provided guidance to a workforce in prioritizing work.
 D. None of the above.
28. From the list below, select the the statement that best describes your experience leading a team that analyzed the effectiveness and/or efficiency of program operations.
 A. I have led a team of four or fewer people to analyze program operations.
 B. I have led a team of five or more people to analyze program operations.
 C. I have led a team of five or more people to analyze large and complex program operations.
 D. I have not led a team to analyze program operations.
29. Please take this opportunity to review your question responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you understand this statement, have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected