Position Title
Dietitian (Clinical)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSY-12785178-25-KW Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 15, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).
If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
3. Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Name and Contact Information
Job title
Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2021)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week if part-time)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held.
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

Do you confirm that the above information is clearly stated for each work entry you are claiming experience for, and that each entry is full time unless otherwise annotated with part-time hours?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I understand that this position is not remote; if selected, I understand I am required to be on-site at a VISN 23 facility and I am able to physically report to a VISN 23 facility. This is not negotiable.
Please select 'no' if you are not interested in a position on-site within VISN 23.
 A. Yes
 B. No
All qualifying experience you possess must be clearly described in your application package. We will not make assumptions when reviewing applications. Failure to demonstrate your experience and knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) in your application may result in disqualification. It is strongly recommended that you write to each KSA to demonstrate how you have gained each one in your application package or on a supplemental document. Please see the announcement for KSA requirements.

If applying as an internal or status candidate with current or former Federal Service, you must provide a copy of your most recent non-award SF-50, "Notification of Personnel Action", showing the highest grade or promotion potential held, dated within the last year.

Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. BASIC REQUIREMENTS
Citizenship. Be a citizen of the United States (U.S.). Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with 38 U.S.C. ? 7407(a).
Registration.
(1) All applicants must hold the RDN credential from the Commission on Dietetic  Registration (CDR) the credentialing agency of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. Note: Applicants who hold the RDN credential have met the education requirement (e.g. bachelor's degree or higher) of CDR, as such this occupation is considered professional and scientific with a positive education requirement and the procedures in Part I, Chapter 4 of this Handbook will be followed when applying Veteran's preference.
(2) Exception for Dietitians who do not possess the RDN credential.
(a) Non-credentialed Dietitians who meet the basic qualification  requirements and have fulfilled the requirements below, but do not possess the RDN credential, may be given a temporary full-time appointment not to exceed one year under the authority of 38 U.S.C.  7405(c)(2).
i Non-credentialed Dietitians must have fulfilled each of the following:
A Earned a bachelor's or higher degree from a U.S. regionally accredited college, university or foreign equivalent (refer to ii below).
B Completed an ACEND accredited experiential or supervised practice program and provide a verification statement from the program director that conveys eligibility to take the CDR registration exam as a prospective RDN. A list of ACEND accredited programs is located on the ACEND website or at ACEND Accredited Programs Directory.
ii Foreign Education. To be creditable, college and/or university degrees earned outside the U.S and its territories must be evaluated by ACEND and meet ACEND's International Dietitian Education standards which are designed to provide graduates with the knowledge and competencies to sit for the CDR credentialing exam.
(b) Non-credentialed Dietitians may only be appointed at the GS-07 or GS-09 grade level and may not be promoted/converted until they obtain their RDN credential.
(c) Non-credentialed Dietitians must provide care under the supervision of a RDN at or above the full performance level.
(d) Temporary appointments of non-credentialed Dietitian will not be extended beyond one year or converted to a new temporary appointment.
(e) Failure to Obtain Registration. In all cases, Dietitians must actively pursue meeting registration requirements starting from their appointment date. At the time of appointment, servicing Human Resources (HR) staff in collaboration with the supervisor, will provide non-registered Dietitians the written requirement to obtain registration, the date by which they must acquire it and the consequences for not doing so by the deadline. Failure to obtain registration within one year from the date of appointment will result in removal from the Dietitian, GS-0630 occupation and may result in termination of employment.
Loss of Credential. In collaboration with HR Office staff, management officials must immediately relieve employees who fail to maintain the required registration/certification of duties and responsibilities associated with the occupation and/or assignment, which may also result in separation from employment.
Grandfathering Provision. Employees in VHA in this occupation, under a permanent, appropriate and legal placement on the effective date of the qualification standard, are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade and/or assignment held, including positive education and registration/certification, where applicable.
Physical Requirements. You will be asked to participate in a pre-employment examination or evaluation as part of the pre-employment process for this position. Questions about physical demands or environmental factors may be addressed at the time of evaluation or examination.
English Language Proficiency. Dietitian candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with 38 U.S.C. ? 7403(f).

Do you meet or exceed these Basic Requirements for this position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Dietitian (Clinical), GS-07

Assignment. Employees in this assignment serve in a Dietitian (Clinical) entry-level developmental position. They work under the guidance of a Dietitian who is at the full performance level or above, performing increasingly complex tasks designed to prepare them for promotion. Clinical Dietitians conduct nutrition assessments for patients with lower acuity using the NCP while developing skills to apply evidence-based nutrition practice guidelines. Clinical Dietitians learn to interpret research, apply whole health principles and develop patient-centered goals. They develop skills in accurate record keeping of clinical activities and complete patient encounters using approved systems. Clinical Dietitians comply with The Joint Commission (TJC) requirements and other accrediting agency standards to ensure safe and quality patient care. They collaborate with the Food Operations Section to enhance the Veterans' dining experience and ensure patient satisfaction.

Experience or Education Requirements. None beyond the basic requirements.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. Dietitian (Clinical), GS-09

Assignment. Employees in this assignment serve in a Dietitian (Clinical) developmental position. They perform increasingly complex tasks under general supervision. Clinical Dietitians conduct nutrition assessments using the NCP. They develop skills in applying evidence-based nutrition practice guidelines, interpreting research and utilizing whole health principles to develop patient-centered goals and improve outcomes. Clinical Dietitians also utilize virtual care technology to improve access to care. They maintain accurate record keeping of daily clinical activities and patient encounters using approved systems. Clinical Dietitians comply with TJC and other accrediting agency standards to ensure safe and quality patient care. They collect data related to performance improvement activities within Nutrition and Food Services (NFS) and assist in implementing new initiatives. Clinical Dietitians collaborate with the Food Service Section to enhance the Veterans' dining experience, support patient satisfaction and serve as a liaison between clinical units and the food service section.

Requirements

Experience. At least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-7). Examples of experience include:

OR

Education. Master's degree from a regionally accredited university or college.

Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
(a) Knowledge of various accrediting and regulatory requirements.
(b) Knowledge of virtual technology to provide nutrition care.
(c) Ability to deliver patient care using the NCP (e.g., assessment, diagnosis, intervention, monitoring and evaluation).
(d) Ability to apply evidence-based nutrition practices to improve patient outcomes.
(e) Ability to develop patient-centered goals.
(f) Ability to collect data for performance improvement studies.
(g) Ability to collaborate with stakeholders.


Do you meet or exceed these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Dietitian (Clinical), GS-11

Assignment. Employees in this assignment serve in a Dietitian (Clinical) full performance level position. Clinical Dietitians conduct comprehensive nutrition assessments for Veterans using the NCP (e.g., assessment, diagnosis, intervention, monitoring and evaluation), assuring high-quality nutrition care. They apply evidence-based nutrition practice guidelines, interpret research and utilize whole health principles to develop patient- centered goals and improve outcomes. Clinical Dietitians also utilize virtual care technology to improve access to care. They are accountable for independent and accurate record keeping, autonomous coverage of daily clinical activities and efficiently completing patient encounters using approved systems. Clinical Dietitians are knowledgeable of and ensure work accomplishments comply with TJC and other accrediting agency standards and ensure continuous improvement of safe and quality care. They collect and analyze data related to performance improvement activities within NFS, lead activities in the implementation of new initiatives and collaborate with stakeholders. Clinical Dietitians frequently collaborate with the food service section and leadership staff to enhance the Veteran's dining experience, support patient satisfaction and serve as a liaison between clinical units and the Food Service Section.

Requirements

Experience. At least one year of experience as an RDN equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-9). Examples of experience include:
Applied knowledge of various accrediting and regulatory requirements.
Applied knowledge of virtual technology to provide nutrition care.
Delivered patient care using the NCP (e.g., assessment, diagnosis, intervention, monitoring and evaluation).
Applied evidence-based nutrition practices to improve patient outcomes.
Developed patient-centered goals.
Collected data for performance improvement studies.
Collaborated with stakeholders.

Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:

(a) Skill in delivering patient care using the NCP (e.g., assessment, diagnosis, intervention, monitoring and evaluation).
(b) Skill in interpreting research to apply evidence-based nutrition practices to improve patient outcomes.
(c) Skill in developing patient-centered goals.
(d) Skill in analyzing data for performance improvement studies.
(e) Skill in collaborating with stakeholders.
(f) Ability to comply with various accrediting, regulatory and agency authorities.

Do you meet or exceed these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected