Position Title
Health Technician (Massage Therapy)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-12765747-25-RJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 15, 2025 to Friday, July 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
To qualify for this position, you must meet the basic requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements.

Please answer the following questions. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.

*Grandfathering Provision:  The following is the standard grandfathering policy for all Title 38 Hybrid qualification standards. Some of these provisions may not apply to this occupation. Please carefully review the qualification standard to determine the specific education and/or licensure/certification/ registration requirements that apply to this occupation.

Health Technicians (Massage Therapy) employed in VHA on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade held, including positive education and licensure that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements of this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it, the following provisions apply: 
Employees grandfathered into the GS-0640 occupational series as a Health Technician (Massage Therapy) may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance (journey) level, or changed to lower grade within the occupation.
Health Technicians (Massage Therapy) who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of this qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed on a temporary or permanent basis until they fully meet the basic requirements of this standard.
Health Technicians (Massage Therapy) initially grandfathered into this occupation, who subsequently obtain additional education and/or licensure, certification, registration, and meet all the basic requirements of this qualification standard, must maintain the required credentials as a condition of employment in the occupation.
If Health Technicians (Massage Therapy), who are grandfathered under this provision, leave the GS-0640 series, they lose their grandfathered protected status. These employees must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of re-entry to the Health Technician (Massage Therapy) occupation in this series.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. English Language Proficiency: Individuals appointed under the authority of 38 U.S.C. chapters 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in Veterans Health Administration (VHA), must be proficient in written and spoken English.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Education: Candidates must complete a minimum 500-hour massage therapy education program.

*Foreign Graduates: Graduates of foreign massage therapy programs that require a minimum 500-hour education program are considered to meet the basic education requirements if they have a full unrestricted and current license, registration, or certification to practice as a massage therapist in a state, territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or the District of Columbia, or by maintaining a board certification from the National Certification Board for Therapeutic Massage and Bodywork (NCBTMB).


Have you completed a minimum of a 500-hour massage therapy education program?

*You must provide supporting documentation to verify completion of this program.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Licensure, Registration, or Certification: 
Candidates must be currently licensed, registered, or certified to practice as a massage therapist in a state, territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or the District of Columbia. Acceptable credentials must have required successful completion of a minimum 500-hour massage therapy education program and pass the Massage and Bodywork Licensing Examination, National Certification Board for Therapeutic Massage and Bodywork Examination, or equivalent state-issued examination. OR
Candidates must possess and maintain a board certification from the National Certification Board for Therapeutic Massage and Bodywork (NCBTMB).
NOTE: As of the date of this standard, several states do not offer a credential in massage therapy. Additionally, some states offer a credential that does not meet the 500-hour education program and/or state-issued examination requirements described above in subparagraph 3.c.(1). Candidates may satisfy the basic requirement of licensure/certification/registration by possessing and maintaining a board certification from the NCBTMB.

*Exception: Non-certified applicants, who have pending registrations or licensures in a state, or a certification by a national board recognized by the Secretary, and otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for licensure, may be given a temporary appointment as a Graduate Health Technician (Massage Therapy), under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(c)(2)(B), for a period not to exceed two years. Failure to obtain licensure/registration/certification during this period may result in termination of employment.


Select the response that best describes your Licensure, Registration, or Certification.

*You must provide a copy of your license, certificate, or registration with your job application.
 A. I am currently licensed, registered, or certified to practice as a massage therapist in a state, territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or the District of Columbia.
 B. I possess and maintain a board certification from the National Certification Board for Therapeutic Massage and Bodywork (NCBTMB).
 C. Exception: I am a non-certified applicant pending registration or licensure in a state, or a certification by a national board recognized by the Secretary and otherwise meets the eligibility requirements for licensure, and would like to be considered for a temporary appointment as a Graduate Health Technician (Massage Therapy) for a period not to exceed two years. I understand failure to obtain licensure/registration/certification during this period may result in termination of employment.
 D. My Licensure, Registration, or Certification is not reflected in responses A, B, or C.
Health Technician (Massage Therapy), GS-5 - Entry Level 
Education, Experience, and Licensure: None beyond the basic requirements
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. Health Technician (Massage Therapy), GS-6 - Developmental Level
Education, Experience, and Licensure: In addition to the basic requirements, candidates must possess one year of experience equivalent to the GS-5 grade level, and demonstrate all the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities below. 
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities:
Skill to provide massage techniques including draping, using the appropriate tools, supplies, and equipment based on the needs of the patient;
Knowledge of anatomy, physiology, pathology, therapeutic effects, and evidence based practice of massage therapy;
Ability to work with an interdisciplinary team in a health care setting;
Knowledge of all patient safety procedures, rules, and regulations as they pertain to a clinical environment; and
Ability to effectively communicate verbally/non-verbally and in writing (through a variety of modalities).
Do you possess the Education, Experience, and Licensure AND Demonstrated Knowledge Skills and Abilities?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Health Technician (Massage Therapy) GS-7 - Full Performance Level
Education, Experience, and Licensure: In addition to the basic requirements, candidates must possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS6 grade level performing massage therapy and demonstrate all the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities below. 
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: 
Ability to assess the physical and mental status of patients (including history and physical assessment), interpret the appropriate information to identify each patient's population-specific needs, identify indications/contraindications for massage, develop the plan of care, and monitor their response to treatment;
Ability to use various communication techniques to encourage and educate individuals and groups to enhance massage therapy outcomes;
Skill in developing and maintaining strong interpersonal relationships; and
Ability to advise staff and students in massage therapy practices.
Do you possess the Education, Experience, and Licensure AND Demonstrated Knowledge Skills and Abilities?
 A. Yes
 B. No
TRANSCRIPT REMINDER: Candidates must complete a minimum 500-hour massage therapy education program. Please provide supporting documentation.

LICENSURE, REGISTRATION, OR CERTIFICATION REMINDER: You must submit a copy of your Licensure, Registration, or Certification with your application.

RESUME REMINDER: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected