Position Title
Clinical Lab Scientist (Evenings & Night Shift)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12805486-26-JML Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 8, 2025 to Monday, October 20, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Language proficiency
1.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
The following statements address your education and experience as they relate to the Clinical Laboratory Scientist position. Please select the answer that best describes you. Your application package MUST support your answers.


1.
Basic Requirement: Education. The Clinical Laboratory Scientist must have a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university.

Note: Grandfathering Provision. Employees in VHA in this occupation under a permanent, appropriate, and legal placement on the effective date of this qualification standard, are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade and/or assignment held, including positive education and certification where applicable.

Please indicate your level of education below.
 I have the required education.
 I do not have the required education.
 I do not meet the education rquirement but I am covered under the grandfathering provision.


2.
Basic Requirement: Certification. The Clinical Laboratory Scientist must have one of the following:
Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT,
Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT, or
Categorical certification or Specialist certification by ASCP or AMT.

Exception for Non Certified:
Non-Certified applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for licensure may be given a temporary appointment CLS under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(c)(2).
Refer to the Qualification section of the job announcement for more details.

Please indicate your level of certification below.
 I have the certification required.
 I do not currently have the required certification.
 I do not have current certification, but am eligible for an exception.


Grade Determinations: In addition to the basic requirements for employment, candidates must meet the following grade-determining criteria for placement at grade levels specified. Please answer each question regarding your experience that qualifies you for each grade level.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
GS-7: There is no experience required  beyond the basic requirements. 

Do you possess the basic requirements for this position?
 Yes
 No


4.
GS-09: To qualify for the GS 9 grade level you must posses: 
1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level GS-7 OR,
A Master's degree OR
 2 academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in medical technology or directly related science.
In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSA's) show in the qualification section of this announcement. 

Do you possess the experience listed above and can you demonstrate the KSA's for this grade level?
 Yes
 No


5.
GS-11: To qualify at the GS 11 grade level you must meet one of the criteria below: 
Experience. 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level. OR
Education. 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science. AND
In addition the experience or education above, you must be able to demonstrate the Knowledge, Skills and Abilities statements listed in the qualification section of this announcement. 

Do you posses the required experience/education listed above?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙