Position Title
MWR Facility Operations Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12771589 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 24, 2025 to Saturday, August 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience to qualify for the MWR Facility Operations Manager (Dining Services) position. Failure to respond to all question will result in an ineligible rating. Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.

Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you have at least one year of experience in a food and beverage operation?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you have at least three years of experience in a food and beverage operation and at least one year of supervisory experience in a food and beverage operation?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Please select the response that best describes your experience with the daily operations of a food and beverage program that includes catering.
 A. My current position involves management and administrative skills at the level of a Manager in a food and beverage program within the Department of Defense (DoD).
 B. My current position involves management and administrative skills at the level of a Manager in a food and beverage program within the private sector.
 C. My current position involves management and administrative skills at the level of an Assistant Manager in a food and beverage program within the Department of Defense (DoD).
 D. My current position involves management and administrative skills at the level of an Assistant Manager in a food and beverage program within the private sector.
 E. I have previous experience in a position that involved management and administrative skills at the level or Assistant Manager or Manger.
 F. I have no experience in a position that involved management and administrative skills at the level or Assistant Manager or Manger.
4. Please select the response that best describes your general experience within a food and beverage operation.
 A. I have more than seven years of experience with the above.
 B. I have over five but less than seven years of experience with the above.
 C. I have over three but under five years of experience with the above.
 D. I have three years of experience with the above.
 E. I have no experience with the above.
5. Please select the response that best describes your accounting/procurement experience.

 A. My current position is within the Department of the Navy (DON) and involves responsibility for NAF accounting/ procurement practices and procedures within a program.
 B. My current position is within the Department of Defense (DoD) and involves responsibility for accounting/ procurement practices and procedures within a program.
 C. My current position involves responsibility for accounting/ procurement practices and procedures within the private sector.
 D. I have previous experience in a position that involved responsibility for accounting/ procurement practices and procedures in DON or DOD or private sector.
 E. I have no experience in a position that involved responsibility for accounting/ procurement practices and procedures in DON or DOD or private sector.
6. Please select the response that best describes your education level.
 A. I have a 4-year degree in Food and Beverage, Hotel and Restaurant Management or Hospitality.
 B. I have a 2-year degree in Food and Beverage, Hotel and Restaurant Management or Hospitality.
 C. I have some college courses or a certificate in Food and Beverage, Hotel and Restaurant Management or Hospitality.
 D. I do not have a degree or certificate in Food and Beverage, Hotel and Restaurant Management or Hospitality.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected