Position Title
Immigration Services Analyst
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12791489-QNS-IMP-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 9, 2025 to Thursday, September 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current USCIS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. The Reemployment Priority List (RPL) is the mechanism DHS uses to give reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees separated by reduction-in-force (RIF), or fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a former USCIS employee?  If so, have you met all of the following criteria?
Registered for the RPL program, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupied a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current/most recent performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent, and
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606
For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, visit 5 CFR 330 Subpart B.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
My SF-50 showing Separation - RIF. If that is not available yet, then official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who is in a permanent position that is in the competitive service (see block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type)?

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of our SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. New York, NY
 B. Queens, NY
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
9
11
12
3. I acknowledge the following conditions if I choose to submit my resume through the USAJOBS Resume Builder:
I understand that resumes submitted through USAJOBS Resume Builder are converted to a PDF format when they are transmitted to USA Staffing from the USAJOBS applicant interface and additional spaces/page gaps are added to resumes during the Resume Builder conversion process;
Based on the above conditions, I understand that USCIS strongly encourages me to save my resume to a PDF document and upload the PDF document instead of submitting my resume created through Resume Builder;
I understand that USCIS' human resources will only review the first 2 pages of my resume to determine eligibility/qualifications for this position;
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I have met this requirement for consideration.

(Note: Additional guidance regarding this requirement is available within the How to Submit Your Resume section of the USCIS Resume Requirement FAQs.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 D. No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.
5. Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) from the Federal Government within the last 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6.

This job is being posted for individuals who reside within the local commuting area* of the announced duty location on a permanent basis. All candidates must meet this requirement, with the exception of Refugee, Asylum and International Operations (RAIO) overseas employees approved for rotation OR unless on an approved exemption OR at an approved USCIS location. In these cases you can apply for any location.

Do you reside within the local commuting area* of the announced duty location on a permanent basis OR are a RAIO overseas employee approved for rotation OR on an approved exemption** OR at an approved USCIS location***?

*Local commuting area is defined as a distance that you can reasonably travel back and forth daily to the announced duty location from your permanent residence.

**An approved exemption is: military spouses, approved RA, or temporary long distance remote status (documentation required).

***An approved USCIS location is defined as pre authorized space designated for use by the program, office or directorate.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

The address listed on your USA Jobs profile or resume must show that you reside within the local commuting area of the announced duty location.
If on an approved exemption you must provide the most recent approval.
If at an approved USCIS location you must provide the original reporting instructions.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. If your status changes, requiring you to report to a physical location you may be directed to report to one of the duty locations listed in the original job opportunity announcement without relocation expenses.
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I understand this requirement.
By answering NO to this question, I am asking to be removed from further consideration for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Are you a current USCIS employee who opted to take part of the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) and are currently in an Administrative Leave category?
 A. Yes.
 B. No.
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. GS-09 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience and/or education?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I have successfully completed a Master’s or equivalent graduate degree or at least two (2) full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B or J.D. in a field related to the work of this position as described in the vacancy announcement.
 C. I possess a combination of specialized experience and graduate education beyond the first year of graduate study that together meet the requirements for this position.
 D. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.
2. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
3. GS-11 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience and/or education?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or at least three (3) full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M. in a field related to the work of this position as described in the vacancy announcement.
 C. I possess a combination of specialized experience and graduate education beyond the first two (2) years of graduate study that together meet the requirements for this position.
 D. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.
4. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
5. GS-12 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
6. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
7. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the  GS-09. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the  GS-07 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-07 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-07 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-09 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., VRA, Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement)
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
8. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the  GS-11. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the  GS-09 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-09 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-09 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-11 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., VRA, Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
9. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the  GS-12. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the  GS-11 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
The following section contains a multitude of question types. If you see a radio button, you can only select one response. If you see a checkbox, you may select all that apply.
10. Select the activities you have performed to process application/petition packets.
 A. Reviewed applications/petitions for completeness.
 B. Verified accuracy of entered data
 C. Updated databases with new/revised information.
 D. Created queries to facilitate data review
 E. Conducted database searches to identify potential fraud
 F. Identified inconsistencies in case file contents
 G. Prepared follow up activities for packets that were identified as incomplete
 H. None of the above
11. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience using statistics (e.g., reports, estimates, forecasts) to inform immigration policies and procedures?
 A. I assisted senior analysts by developing reports with descriptive statistics.
 B. I made recommendations on immigration policies and procedures based on descriptive statistic reports I generated.
 C. I provided policy development advice based on forecasted statistics.
 D. I briefed managers on statistical findings and estimates to inform policy development decisions.
 E. I completed education and/or training related to statistical reporting, but do not have professional experience.
 F. I have no experience, training, or education related to statistical reporting.
12. What statement best describes your highest level of experience using data mining tools to identify data trends and/or anomalies?
 A. I made modifications to previously developed reports.
 B. I created data mining tools from raw data elements.
 C. I automated routine reports to be readily available to senior managers and executives.
 D. I completed education and/or training related to data mining tools, but do not have professional experience.
 E. None of the above.
13. Which statements describe your experience preparing data and reports?
 A. I assisted senior staff by collating and compiling data from multiple sources and produce reports that are disseminated throughout the organization.
 B. I use the functions of a spreadsheet to develop reports based upon a business need or requirement.
 C. I review information contained within a spreadsheet or database to verify its accuracy or conformance with agency/organizational standards.
 D. I enter information into spreadsheets or databases that is used to create recurring data reports for management.
 E. None of the above.
14. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience related to using Microsoft Excel?
 A. I applied basic sorting filters to previously created, reoccurring reports.
 B. I applied conditional formatting to previously created, reoccurring reports.
 C. I applied advanced formulas (e.g. IF and VLOOKUP) to previously created, reoccurring reports.
 D. I created custom pivot tables and applied them to recurring reports.
 E. I wrote Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) code macros for recurring reports that are used by others.
 F. None of the above.
15. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience with mathematical modeling?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to mathematical modeling.
 B. I built mathematical models using programming languages but have not applied them to a professional use case.
 C. I applied existing mathematical models to professional use cases.
 D. I built a novel mathematical model using programming languages to make data-driven recommendations for existing problems.
16. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience applying mathematical and statistical measures and/or models?
 A. I used mathematical and statistical measures and/or models to develop findings.
 B. I applied mathematical and statistical measures and/or models to make recommendations to more senior officials.
 C. I developed novel mathematical and statistical measures and/or models to inform senior officials on sensitive issues.
 D. I completed education and/or training related to using mathematical and statistical measures and/or models, but do not have professional experience.
 E. I have no experience, training, or education related to using mathematical and statistical measures and/or models.
17. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience building mathematical, and/or statistical routine in a computer language (e.g., C++, Python, R, SAS, Java)?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to using mathematical and statistical routine in a computer language.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to using mathematical and statistical routine using a programming language, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I have leveraged pre-existing code to complete a research objective.
 D. I updated and executed pre-existing code to complete a research objective.
 E. I authored original code to be automated or leveraged by colleagues.
18. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience using statistics (e.g., reports, estimates, forecasts) to inform immigration policies and procedures?
 A. I assisted senior analysts by developing reports with descriptive statistics.
 B. I made recommendations on immigration policies and procedures based on descriptive statistic reports I generated.
 C. I provided policy development advice based on forecasted statistics.
 D. I briefed managers on statistical findings and estimates to inform policy development decisions.
 E. I completed education and/or training related to statistical reporting, but do not have professional experience.
 F. I have no experience, training, or education related to statistical reporting.
19. Select the actions you have performed to maintain a record tracking system.
 A. Entered data from orders into record tracking databases (e.g., denials, revocations)
 B. Generated database queries or reports to respond to inquiries
 C. Completed file audits and took corrective action
 D. None of the above.
20. Which administrative/clerical activities have you performed related to project/program management?
 A. I assisted with the implementation of special projects.
 B. I set up controls and records to assist in presenting statistical information on special programs.
 C. I advised superiors on correspondence management.
 D. I finalized official correspondence to ensure accuracy of content, spelling, format, and grammar.
 E. I monitored the progress of special projects/programs and informed key staff of potential impediments.
 F. None of the above.
21. I have reviewed the implementation of a project or program (e.g., application of new law or procedure) and reported outcomes of my review (e.g., production, quality, service to the public) to senior leaders.
 A. True
 B. False
22. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience monitoring project performance to completion?
 A. I developed policies that were implemented to monitor project performance.
 B. I directed programs that monitored project performance.
 C. I provided advice to others on how to monitor project performance to completion.
 D. I completed education and/or training related to monitoring project performance but have not yet performed it on the job.
 E. I have no experience, training, or education related to monitoring project performance.
23. Which information technology management activities have you performed independently?
 A. I applied application software principles and methods (e.g. Agile and DevOps).
 B. I applied programming languages (e.g. SQL and Ruby On Rails).
 C. I programmed technical documentation procedures.|I explained technical procedures to non-technical individuals.
 D. I explained technical procedures to non-technical individuals
 E. I queried and analyzed data to answer information technology questions from management.
 F. None of the above.
24. Which program and project management activities have you performed?
 A. I functioned as an acquisition specialist.
 B. I have been a team member in a liaison role between project teams, Program Manager, and customers.
 C. I attended meetings with Project Teams to jointly identify and plan upcoming contract actions.
 D. I led meetings with Project Teams, as the Project Manager, to ensure timelines and the budget of the procurement process are being met.
 E. I assisted Program Manager(s) in the development of the acquisition lifecycle to identify objectives and milestones.
 F. I created performance schedules for project teams.
 G. I suggested changes to the Contracting Officer that improved contract performance and processes.
 H. None of the above.
25. Which project management tasks have you independently performed?
 A. Established project management standards (e.g., templates, guidelines) used by an entire organization.
 B. Executed established projects set by the executive leadership.
 C. Conducted research to resolve problems that arose during projects.
 D. Prioritized assigned individual tasks.
 E. Reviewed employees' work for technical adequacy.
 F. Provided performance feedback to team members on assigned tasks.
 G. Provided management oversight (e.g., tracking deadlines, monitoring performance) to a team on a project with organization-wide impact.
 H. None of the above.
26. Choose the statement that best describes your experience organizing or managing projects to meet deadlines.
 A. I have created strategies to make high quality decisions regarding organizing or managing projects to meet deadlines.
 B. My work has allowed engagement in defining criteria to direct others in developing platforms for decisions while organizing or managing projects to meet deadlines.
 C. I consistently support others within the organization to develop techniques to serve as precedents and future best practices in organizing or managing projects to meet deadlines.
 D. I do not meet any of the options provided.
27. Select the activities you have performed related to training development and delivery.
 A. Created new training curriculum
 B. Created new training materials (e.g., PowerPoints, worksheets, guides, graphs etc.)
 C. Delivered in-person training to others (e.g., classroom-based sessions)
 D. Delivered remote training to others (e.g., video-based meetings, webinars)
 E. Updated existing training materials (e.g., PowerPoints, worksheets, guides, graphs)
 F. None of the above
28. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience solving problems (e.g., navigating deviations from standard work processes)?
 A. I asked for guidance from others (e.g., peers, supervisors, trainers) to solve work problems.
 B. I referenced established training documents and operating procedures to solve work problems.
 C. I collaborated with peers to develop alternative options to solve a problem.
 D. I trained others on how to resolve problems (e.g., adapt to deviations) in their work.
 E. I completed education and/or training in problem solving but don't have professional experience.
 F. None of the above.
29. Select the activities you have performed to ensure the data integrity of electronic systems.
 A. I reviewed immigration benefit applications and petitions for completeness.
 B. I verified the accuracy of data entered.
 C. I updated databases with new/revised immigration benefit information.
 D. I created queries to facilitate data review.
 E. I conducted database searches to identify potential issues (e.g., fraud).
 F. None of the above
30. Select the areas in which you have reviewed work for accuracy
 A. I have provided accurate and consistent feedback on work products.
 B. I have provided information timely and in a clear format for others to act on.
 C. I have reviewed and verified the accuracy of information and work products.
 D. I have independently monitored work details and the quality of my own work according to established policies, procedures, and guidelines.
 E. I have not reviewed work for accuracy.
31. Which statement best describes your experience in research and analysis?
 A. I have applied multiple techniques using research and analysis to solve problems or make decision using classified and unclassified information.
 B. I have performed in-depth research and analysis to solve problems or make decisions using classified and unclassified information.
 C. I have fostered the use of research and analysis to solve problems or make decisions using classified and unclassified information.
 D. I have led mission specific teams in the use of research and analysis to solve problems or make decisions using classified and unclassified information.
 E. I do not meet any of the options provided.
32. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience in solving complex problems in the workplace.
 A. I have solved difficult problems in the workplace by surrounding myself with others who are strong in problem solving and learning from them.
 B. I am positive in my approach and reframe the problem or issue to come up with new solutions.
 C. I have solved complex problems in the workplace by focusing on details, thinking analytically, and offering practical solutions that evaluate the potential costs, resources, and barriers to a successful solution.
 D. I have identified problems in the workplace but have no experience solving complex problems in the workplace.
33. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience responding to an issue or situation in which the resolution was not obvious?
 A. I gathered basic information about the situation and took the issue to a supervisor for help.
 B. I researched the situation to develop alternatives within guidelines and collaborated with a supervisor to resolve it.
 C. I developed a recommended solution based on my research of the situation and guidelines and sought confirmation/approval from my supervisor before proceeding.
 D. I researched and resolved the issue independently, then briefed my team or supervisor on the action taken.
 E. None of the above.
34. Describe your experience analyzing and evaluating data sources.
 A. I have created analytic products that assist others in drawing conclusive trends at a high rate of success
 B. I have applied basic analysis and evaluation methods to data intelligence from sources such as raw intelligence reports, organizational databases, and available open sources information.
 C. I have evaluated data intelligence from sources such as raw intelligence reports, organizational databases, and available open source information using specific analysis procedures from mission specific requirements.
 D. I have evaluated sensitive data intelligence from sources such as raw intelligence reports, organizational databases, and available open source information for precedent setting policy creation.
 E. I do not meet any of the options provided.
35. Which statements describe your experience preparing data and reports?
 A. I assisted senior staff by compiling data for their use in preparing reports for organizational-wide dissemination.
 B. I reviewed data reports for conformance with agency/organizational standards.
 C. I updated spreadsheet or database files used for budgeting.
 D. I analyzed data in database software (e.g., Microsoft Access) to verify its accuracy.
 E. I developed a process or system to create recurring data reports for management.
 F. None of the above.
36. Which statement best describes your highest level of making sound, well-informed recommendations?
 A. I asked for guidance from others (peers, supervisors, trainers).
 B. I referenced established training documents and operating procedures to solve work problems.
 C. I collaborated with peers to make sound, well-informed decisions.
 D. I trained others on techniques to assist in making well-informed recommendations.
37. Which types of software have you independently used to organize information?
 A. Word Processing (e.g., Microsoft Word)
 B. Email (e.g., Outlook)
 C. Spreadsheets (e.g., Excel)
 D. Databases (e.g., Access)
 E. Graphics/Presentation Tools (e.g., Power Point)
 F. Project Management Tools (e.g., Microsoft Project)
 G. Collaboration Tools (e.g., SharePoint, Google Docs)
 H. None of the above
38. Select the actions you have performed independently using database software (e.g., Microsoft Access).
 A. Ran existing queries
 B. Built and linked tables within a database
 C. Designed data entry forms
 D. Reconcile inconsistencies across databases
 E. Entered data using existing forms
 F. None of the above
39. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience managing data in spreadsheets and databases?
 A. I searched for information in existing databases and spreadsheets using sorts, filters, and/or queries.
 B. I manipulated data in spreadsheets/databases by creating formulas and graphs.
 C. I created spreadsheets/databases to organize data and performed data entry.
 D. I am certified in Microsoft Office (or comparable) programs for spreadsheets and/or databases.
 E. None of the above.
40. Select the activities you have performed to ensure the data integrity of electronic systems.
 A. Reviewed electronic forms (i.e., Immigration Benefits, Personnel Requests) for completeness
 B. Verified accuracy of data entered
 C. Updated databases with new/revised information (i.e., templates, additional steps in current process)
 D. Created queries to facilitate data review
 E. Conducted database searches to identify potential issues
 F. None of the above
41. Which software have you used to conduct statistical analysis?
 A. SAS
 B. Stata
 C. R
 D. SPSS
 E. Excel
 F. None of the above
42. Do you have experience translating raw data into reports that informed decisions made at the organization level?
 A. Assisted others compiling raw data into a usable format
 B. Translated raw data into reports for use by management within my division
 C. Translated raw data into reports for distribution outside of my division
 D. Translated raw data into reports to advise management decisions
 E. None of the above
43. Which computer systems have you used independently to analyze data?
 A. Applicant Tracking System (ATS) (e.g., USA Staffing, FastHire, Monster)
 B. Treasury Enforcement Communications System (TECS)
 C. Electronic System for Personnel (ESP)
 D. National Finance Center (NFC)
 E. Microsoft Excel
 F. Microsoft Access
 G. E-Verify
 H. None of the above
44. Which statement best describes your experience conducting trend and predictive analysis?
 A. I have applied several techniques provided projections of future trends, predictive interpretation, and estimate analysis in the performance of complex national security issues.
 B. I have directed teams or groups providing projections of future trends, predictive interpretation, and estimate analysis in the performance of complex national security issues.
 C. I have performed refined research providing projections of future trends, predictive interpretation, and estimate analysis in the performance of complex national security issues.
 D. I have fostered the use of research and analysis to solve problems or make decisions providing projections of future trends, predictive interpretation, and estimate analysis in the performance of complex national security issues.
 E. I have led mission specific teams providing projections of future trends, predictive interpretation, and estimate analysis in performance of complex national security issues.
 F. I do not meet any of the options provided.
45. Which statistical-related items have you independently analyzed and interpreted to inform program planning?
 A. Statistical trends
 B. Workload seasonality
 C. Workload forecasts
 D. Survival analyses
 E. None of the above
46. If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "pass," "satisfactory," or better?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. I am a Federal employee but have not received a performance rating.
 D. Not applicable. I am not a Federal employee.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
47. Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected