Position Title
Supervisory Recreation Specialist (Aquatics/Fitness/Sports Coordinator)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12757967 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 1, 2025 to Thursday, July 10, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Supervisory Recreation Specialist (Aquatics/ Fitness/Sports Coordinator) position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
1. How many years of knowledge and experience do you have documented on your resume managing all daily operations of comprehensive fitness, sports and aquatics programs to include: planning, creating programs, scheduling, training a team, hiring, coordinating, hosting, and maintaining assessments for all programs?
 A. I have two or more years documented knowledge and/or experience in analyzing cost income to achieve a self-supporting operation/program.
 B. I have less than 2 years documented knowledge and/or experience in analyzing cost income to achieve a self-supporting operation/program.
 C. I have no documented knowledge and/or experience in analyzing cost income to achieve a self-supporting operation/program.
2. How much knowledge and/or experience do you have in budgeting for multiple activities and in analyzing cost income and expenses and bottom lines of financial statements documented on your resume?
 A. I have two or more years documented knowledge and/or experience in analyzing cost income to achieve a self-supporting operation/program.
 B. I have less than 2 years documented knowledge and/or experience in analyzing cost income to achieve a self-supporting operation/program.
 C. I have no documented knowledge and/or experience in analyzing cost income to achieve a self-supporting operation/program.
3. Are you available for an irregular tour, which includes weekend and/or holiday work to cover all operational hours and special events?
 A. Yes, I am available for an irregular tour, which includes weekend and/or holiday work to cover all operational hours and special events
 B. No, I am not available for an irregular tour, which includes weekend and/or holiday work to cover all operational hours and special events
4. Do you have required communication skills to coordinate from installation to community organizations for participation in fitness, sports, and aquatics programs?
 A. I have two or more years documented knowledge and/or experience in communicating with outside organizations.
 B. I have less than 2 years documented knowledge and/or experience communicating with outside organizations.
 C. I have no documented knowledge and/or experience in analyzing cost income to achieve a self-supporting operation/program.
5. Qualifications for the position requires a degree in the recreation or related field, exercise science, sports administration and/or a minimum of 3 years' experience.
 A. I have a degree in recreation, exercise science, and sports administration field. (Must be uploaded to get credit)
 B. I don’t have a degree, but I have 3 years' experience in the field. (Must be documented on your resume.)
 C. I have no degree or related experience.
6. Do you have a current and valid state driver's license?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected