Position Title
BUDGET ANALYST
Agency
Air Force Elements, U.S. Transportation Command
Announcement Number
USTC-25-12792731-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 2, 2025 to Sunday, September 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions and you:
• have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more OR
• retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more?

If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. Please also provide your disability letter which includes the combined service connected disability percentage rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15((SF-15 (PDF file)).  .

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you applying for an appointment under one of the  OPM Interchange agreements (i.e., NAF, TSA, U.S. Postal Service, FAA, VA, etc.) 
 
You must be on a permanent position that is equivalent to the grade level of this position or higher in the Federal Service.
 
If eligible, submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status and indicating the highest grade you have held. 
 
For more information, review Interchange Agreement with Other Merit Systems.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for Schedule A Disability appointments?

If eligible, provide proof of disability with appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

For more information, review https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/individuals-with-disabilities
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. .

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and are applying a for a promotion?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).



 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and have held a position at or above the target grade for this position?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).


 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
are entitled to veterans preference?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes your highest-level of experience for the Budget Analyst position GS-0560-13. To be creditable, specialized experience must be at the next lower grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector.

 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade-level (GS-12) in the federal service, which is in or directly related to the line of work of the position. Creditable specialized experience includes: Presenting, developing, justifying, and executing budgets and financial plans to properly fund and meet resource requirements; providing financial analysis of budget-related issues, to include budget strategies and techniques to meet changing priorities and resource allocations; applying results of financial/budget related analysis to solve problems and make recommendations.
 B. My experience does not meet the requirements listed above.
2. From the following responses, please select the statement that BEST describes your experience with providing recommendations on the implementation of budgetary processes, policies, and regulations.

 A. I have no experience with providing recommendation on the implementation of budgets.
 B. I prepare guidance and explain or defend recommendations on budgetary implementation, processes, policies, and regulations.
 C. I research historical budget data to provide information to a senior budget analyst for inclusion in responses to recommendations.
 D. I research processes, policies, and regulations to formulate responses to be reviewed.
3. From the following choices, identify those that reflect your experiences in performing specialized individual economic analyses and impact studies (select all that apply).

 A. Conduct cost management effectiveness and sensitivity studies
 B. Conduct studies to analyze and evaluate actual or potential effectiveness of budget programs.
 C. Develop cost estimating relationships based on quantitative and statistical principles.
 D. Research and/or verify costs supporting studies.
 E. Document sources and cost methodology, ensuring study can be duplicated by review agencies.
 F. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response).
4. From the following responses, please select the statement that BEST describes your experience in analyzing changes in program plans or funding.

 A. I have identified and made frequent adjustments to budget estimates or conduct partial re-budgeting.
 B. I have prepared reports detailing the availability of funds for a program or agency.
 C. I have researched with assistance the difference in budget estimates and provided recommendations to a senior budget analyst for review.
 D. I do not have any experience in analyzing changes in program plans or funding.
5. From the following choices, identify those that reflect your experiences in formulation of budgets (select all that apply).

 A. Prepare detailed analyses of annual or multi-year budget estimates
 B. Assemble or develop background data, information, and documents.
 C. Participating in Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and/or Congressional committees.
 D. Review historical data to determine spending trends and forecast annual funding needs.
 E. Interpret source information and apply it to the budget.
 F. Prepare and edit narrative justification for projected funding needs.
 G. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response).
6. From the following responses, please select the statement that BEST describes your experience with managing budget requirements in order to forecast, develop and justify budgets.

 A. I have served as an agency expert and consultant to top management officials providing direction, leadership, and technical guidance toward ensuring budget compliance with statutory/regulatory guidance.
 B. I have reviewed and interpreted program policies, and procedures in order to coordinate and integrate the formulation and preparation of budget exhibits and justification materials.
 C. I have participated in the budget formulation process, developing justifications, and presenting to stakeholders for feedback
 D. None of the above.
7. From the following responses, select the answer that BEST describes your experience with the developing and justifying budgets in compliance with statutory/regulatory guidance.

 A. I have developed and justified budgets at a high level (ex. OMB/Congress/Other governmental agencies) using regulatory and statutory guidance.
 B. I developed budgets in accordance to well established standard operating procedures but have not performed any justifications.
 C. I ensure budget submissions are compatible with guidance received, fully justified, and submitted within allocated time frames.
 D. I determine validity of budgets by researching proposals; conducting trend analyses and obtaining appropriate back-up documentation, examine financial alternatives and present these alternatives to senior management, as appropriate.
 E. None of the above
8. From the following responses, select the answer that best describes your experience with developing analyses describing the agency's budget and program issues, and financial data and reports, and interpreting budgetary program requirements to other experts.

 A. I make recommendations and decisions that influence important budgetary analysis policies and procedures to senior level officials, Flag or General Officers.
 B. I participate in defining business processes and evaluating alternatives that will help describe the agency?s official position.
 C. I have performed analysis that is in line with the agency?s mission and requirements.
 D. None of the above.
9. From the following choices, identify those that reflect your experiences in using automated budgetary system(s) (select all that apply).

 A. Perform quality checks of automated system database information
 B. Use computer software programs to produce required budget reports, plans, schedules, etc.
 C. Use computer programs to validate analyses of budget information such as costs, benefits, and trade-offs in obligation and expenditures of budget dollars
 D. Use software programs to accomplish budget assignments.
 E. Provide information to system program manager when programs are not performing as expected.
 F. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response).
10. From the following list, select the types of sources or funding that you have experience with as it relates to monitoring obligations and actual expenditures of a budget (select all that apply).

 A. Direct annual
 B. Multi-year
 C. No Year
 D. Apportionments
 E. Allotments
 F. Transfer of funds
 G. Revenue from industrially funded operations
 H. Refunds
 I. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response).
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected