Position Title
Registered Respiratory Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBST-12757379-25-SC Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 2, 2025 to Thursday, July 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume, supporting documents, and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you meet the eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and other application documents. You will not be contacted for missing information or documents. All information and documents are due at the time of application.

This section evaluates if you meet the basic requirements for the position of GS-0601 Registered Respiratory Therapist.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. English Language: Candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 7403(f).

Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Education. Individuals must have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor.

You must provide a copy of your transcripts showing the degree earned and completion/confer date.

Please answer by selecting the most appropriate response.
 A. Yes, I completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor. (NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcript(s) showing award of certificate or completion of program to receive credit.)
 B. No, I do not possess the required education to qualify for this position.
2a. Education Information: Provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your education.
 
Name of Academic Institution
City and State
Month and Year conferred
 
3. Licensure. Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT.

Your licensure must be provided as a supporting document if you are licensed.

Please answer by selecting the most appropriate response.
 A. Yes, I possess a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT. (NOTE: Must provide a copy of your full, current and unrestricted license).
 B. No, I do not possess the required licensure to qualify for this position.
3a. Licensure Information: Provide the following information regarding your licensure.
 
Name on License
Issuing state or territory
Complete license number
Expiration date
 
4. Credential. Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a valid, current, unrestricted credential of Registered Respiratory Therapist (RRT) through National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC). You must submit a copy of your valid, current, unrestricted credential of RRT through NBRC to receive credit.

Your certification must be provided as a supporting document if you are credentialed.

Please answer by selecting the most appropriate response.
 A. Yes, I possess a valid, current, unrestricted credential of CRT or RRT through NBRC (NOTE: Must provide a copy of your valid, current, unrestricted credential of RRT to receive credit).
 B. No, I do not possess the required certification to qualify for this position.
4a. Credential Information: Provide the following information regarding your licensure.
 
Name on Credential
Complete credential number
Expiration date
 
GRADE REQUIREMENTS: This section evaluates if you meet the grade specific requirements for the position and if you can demonstrate the knowledge, skills and abilities to perform the duties of this position. For each question below, please select the appropriate response applicable to you.
5. GS-11 Requirements:

Experience, Education, Licensure and Registration: Candidates must have:

One year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level, hold an active license and RRT credential.

Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
(a) Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals for complex respiratory care to develop care plans to provide favorable patient outcomes.
(b) Skill in evaluating the efficacies of therapeutic modalities.
(c) Skill in performing advanced airway and ventilation management.

Please answer by selecting the most appropriate response.

 A. Yes, I possess one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-09 AND Hold an active license and RRT credential. My resume clearly demonstrates the required Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities required at the GS-11 level.
 B. No, I do not possess the required experience, and my resume does not demonstrate the required Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities required at the GS-11 level.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected