Position Title
Front Desk Associate - Unaccompanied Housing
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26500UH Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 1, 2025 to Tuesday, October 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
Do you reside within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position?

The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 Yes, I reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
 No, I do not reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.


2.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Front Desk Associate position at Unaccompanied Housing - CNRH, JBPHH. Completion of this questionnaire is a requirement for your application package, and your answers must be supported by your resume and/or additional documentation as necessary.



1.
Do you have the ability to handle, control and account for large amounts of cash? Select the statement below that most closely matches the skill level that you have documented in your resume.
 Two plus years of documented experience handling, controlling, and accounting for large of amounts of cash.
 One to two years of documented experience handling, controlling, and accounting for large amounts of cash.
 Less than one year of documented experience handling, controlling, and accounting for large amounts of cash.
 No direct experience handling, controlling, and accounting for large amounts of cash.


2.
Do you have work experience that demonstrates knowledge of basic principles, concepts, standards, and regulations related to hotel/motel hospitality operations?
 I have two plus years of documented work experience that demonstrates knowledge of the basic principles, concepts, standards, and regulations related to hotel/motel hospitality operations.
 I have one to two years of documented work experience that demonstrates knowledge of basic principles, concepts, standards, and regulations related to hotel/motel hospitality operations.
 I have six months to one year of documented work experience that demonstrates knowledge of basic principles, concepts, standards, and regulations related to hotel/motel hospitality operations.
 I have less than six months of documented work experience that demonstrates knowledge of basic principles, concepts, standards, and regulations related to hotel/motel hospitality operations.


3.
What is your education or experience level in basic computer software programs?
 Proficient with Microsoft programs such as Word, Excel, Power Point, etc., including experience in the use of a property management system.
 Proficient with Microsoft programs such as Word, Excel, Power Point, etc.
 Working knowledge of Microsoft programs such as Work and Excel.
 Working knowledge of other basic computer software such as Outlook.


4.
Select the response below that best describes your level of administrative/clerical experience.
 More than 2 years of job related administrative/clerical experience.
 More than 1 year of job related administrative/clerical experience.
 Less than 1 year of job related administrative/clerical experience.
 No job related administrative/clerical experience.


5.
Select the response that best describes your level of customer service experience.

 More than 2 years of customer service experience.
 More than 1 year of customer service experience.
 More than 1 year of customer service experience.
 No customer service experience.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙