Position Title
Nursing Assistant
Agency
Armed Forces Retirement Home
Announcement Number
25-AFRH-12755990 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 10, 2025 to Wednesday, July 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency covered by an OPM Interchange agreement that conveys noncompetitive eligibility?

For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=InterchangeAgreementsWithOtherMeritSystems

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following merit promotion categories?
Current Federal civilian employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current Excepted service employee covered by an Interchange Agreement
Former Federal employee with Reinstatement eligibility
Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA)
Current Federal employee serving on a VRA appointment
Land Management Employee eligible under Public Law 114-47
Other competitive category not listed above (you must submit proof of eligibility)
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you eligible to be appointed under the Military Spouse Noncompetitive Appointing Authority based on any of the following categories?
You are the spouse of an active duty member of the Armed Forces.
You are the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs.
You are the widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status, and you have not re-married.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources. (https://www.usajobs.gov/Veterans)

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a former federal employee that has been separated for at least one full year and is eligible to be non-competitively reinstated to a higher grade or full-performance level than which you left federal employment?
(Note: you MUST provide:  1) a copy of your separation SF-50 (the "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2"); AND 2) the last performance appraisal you received from your federal employment which shows at least a fully successful rating.)

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Do you currently hold (or have you previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you eligible under any other miscellaneous appointing authority not listed thus far, such as (but not all inclusive to):
Postal Career Service Employee;
Postal Rate Commission Employee;
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; 
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee; or 
Foreign overseas employee or eligible family member of former overseas employee
 For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=MiscellaneousAuthoritiesNotRegulated .  To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

For more information on Foreign overseas employment please review the following: https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#NontemporaryForeignService or https://www.state.gov/global-community-liaison-office/family-member-employment/family-member-employment-in-the-d-c-area/non-competitive-eligibility-nce/#NCE5
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you eligible for consideration as a Peace Corps, VISTA, or Action volunteer?  If you select this option, you are required to provide acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility by submitting proof of employment from the appropriate agency with your completed application.
National Service (Peace Corps and VISTA)

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions and you:

• recently separated (within the past 3 years)
• are a disabled veteran
• served on active duty during a war, campaign or expedition OR
• received an Armed Forces Service Medal

If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. If claiming disability preference, provide the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal that includes the final rating. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so. If you do not provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration.

Type "yes" in the text box below if you are providing a performance appraisal meeting the above requirements with your application. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application, please provide a reason in the text box below.
3. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
Assessment 1
Specialized Experience: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-04 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes: nonprofessional nursing care work in a hospital, nursing home, or other medical, nursing, or patient care facility, or in such work as that of a home health aide performing duties such as:

*Providing personal nursing care; OR

*Performing support duties for diagnostic and technical treatment procedures, such as setting up and operating special medical equipment and apparatus; OR

*Caring for patients, including observing, recording, and reporting changes in their behavior, and providing reassurance and encouragement.; OR

* Assisting surgeons and registered nurses in operating room activities, including passing instruments, maintaining sterile conditions, and draping and positioning patients.

OR

A 4-year course of study above high school leading to a bachelors degree with courses related to the occupation, if required;

OR

A combination of experience and education. Only education in excess of the first 60 semester hours (i.e., beyond the second year) is creditable toward meeting the specialized experience requirement. One full academic year of study (30 semester hours) beyond the second year is equivalent to 6 months of specialized experience.
1. Select the answer that best describes your experience as it directly relates to the specialized experience statement. Carefully review your application and ensure that your response is supported by your resume.
 A. I have one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-04 level as described above.
 B. I have completed a 4 year course of study above high school leading to a bachelor's degree with courses related to the occupation. (Note: You must upload a copy of your transcript(s) to ensure proper credit).
 C. I have a combination of the education and specialized experience described above in which has equipped me with the knowledge and experience to perform the required duties. (Note: You must upload a copy of your transcript(s) to ensure proper credit).
 D. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. Do you have an active and current Certified Nursing Assistant (CNA) certification in a state or territory of the U.S.?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Please provide license number and issuing state. (limit 150 characters)
4. Please select the following that describes your experience providing hygiene to patients/Residents. Select all that apply.
 A. Bathing
 B. Shaving
 C. Oral hygiene
 D. Nail/skin care
 E. None of the above
5. Please select the following that describes your experience providing medical assistance to patients/Residents. Select all that apply.
 A. Taking and recording routine and special vital signs
 B. Measuring and recording intake and output
 C. Collecting specimens to include urine and stool specimens
 D. Application of ointments, salves, and powders as directed
 E. Serving, feeding, and collecting food trays
 F. Assisting with ambulation
 G. Changing positions by supporting and turning
 H. Escorting to other areas of facility or in transport
 I. Safe movement of patients/Residents utilizing portable lift equipment
 J. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
6. Do you have experience working with a geriatric population in a Long Term Care or Home Health setting?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Please select the following vital signs you have taken and recorded for geriatric patients/Residents as a regular part of your job duties. Select all that apply.
 A. Blood pressure
 B. Pulse
 C. Respirations
 D. Temperature
 E. None of the above
8. Please select the following tools/technology you have experience using as a regular part of your job duties. Select all that apply.
 A. Specialty Tub(s)
 B. Electronic medical thermometers
 C. Glucometers or Accucheck Devices
 D. Oxygen cylinders or related devices
 E. Pulse oximeter units
 F. Shower or bath chairs for the physically challenged
 G. Therapeutic heating or cooling pads or compresses
 H. Wheelchairs
 I. None of the above
9. Please select the following patient/Resident changes in condition you have experience in recognizing and reporting as a regular part of your job duties. Select all that apply.
 A. Changes in vital signs, i.e., B/P, temperature and pulse
 B. Changes in mental status, i.e., memory deficits. slurring of speech, searching for words
 C. Changes in skin, e.g., redness of skin, pressure sores (Stage I-IV)
 D. Changes in medical status, i.e., sudden loss of consciousness, weakness of extremities, facial drooping, seizures, etc.
 E. None of the above
10. Choose the statement that best describes your experience with whom you communicate on a reoccurring basis.
 A. Experience communicating with patients/Residents and their families regarding patient/Resident condition/behavior along with communication with professional nursing staff or physician.
 B. Experience documenting basic patient/Resident requests/responses to provide patient/Resident status and care information along with communicating with patients/Resident's families, nurses, and physicians.
 C. Experience communicating with professional nurses, members of the health care team, as well as patients/Residents, and their families to provide observed and recorded progress/behavior information.
 D. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
11. Do you have experience documenting care in an electronic medical record system?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected