Position Title
Security Guard
Agency
U.S. Army Joint Munitions Command
Announcement Number
MCGL259983282227HD Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 14, 2025 to Monday, August 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Resume Pilot Acknowledgement
1. The Job Opportunity Announcement (JOA) states that resumes should be limited to 5 pages. If more than 5 pages are submitted, only the first 5 pages will be reviewed to determine your eligibility/qualifications. (NOTE: You may select either response A or B to acknowledge; this question serves only as a reminder of the notice on the JOA).
 A. I understand that I may submit my resume in any format of my choosing, however, if my submitted resume is over 5 pages, only the first 5 pages will be reviewed to determine eligibility/qualifications.
 B. I acknowledge the statement in response ‘A’.
All Conditions of Employment
1. I understand, if selected, as a Department of Army Security guard I must meet ALL the conditions of employment outlined in this announcement and listed below for continued employment.
Must be able to obtain and maintain a favorable T-3 level personal background investigation.
Must successfully pass a pre-employment and recurring medical examination (physical, emotional and mental stability).
Must complete and pass a pre-employment drug test and then annually through random testing thereafter.
Must meet requirements under 18 USC 922(g)(9) (The Lautenberg Amendment); and sign the DD Form 2760 (Qualification to Possess Firearms or Ammunition)
"May" be subject to a one year probationary period unless requirement previously met as described in 5 CFR Part 315.
Position requires rotating shift work which may include fluctuating tours of duty to include evenings, weekends and holidays.
Position is designated as Mission Essential. In the event of a crisis situation or inclement weather, the incumbent must continue to perform the duties until relieved by proper authority.
Will be required to wear personal protective equipment.
Must successfully pass entry level and annual re-certification of physical fitness/ability test.
Must obtain and maintain CPR certification and First Aid training.
Must successfully complete the security guard training program.
Must be proficient in the use of assigned firearms/weapons, pass an initial qualification, and must qualify semi-annually thereafter in the use of assigned firearms/weapons
Must maintain requirements of the Individual Reliability Program (IRP) in accordance with AR 190-56, The Army Civilian Police and Security Guard Program.
Must possess and maintain a valid state driver's license.
Position requires wearing of prescribed uniform.
Must obtain certification for state law enforcement systems and National Crime Information Center (NCIC).
Must be able to perform as a member of the installation's overall security response capability. The duties and training require the employee to carry and deploy a riot baton, carry a protective shield and employ non-lethal ammunitions if necessary.
Must obtain certification in operating electronic equipment and sensors as part of access control.
Are you willing to complete and comply with all Conditions of Employment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Security Guard at the GS-06 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience at the GS-05 grade level or equivalent pay band with a federal, state, municipal, local, or private protective organization that involved the protection of property against such hazards as fire, theft, damage, accident, or trespass; or maintaining order and protecting life. Such experience must have provided a knowledge of protective systems and techniques.
 B. My experience is not reflected in the above statement.
2. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected