Position Title
Railroad Repairer
Agency
U.S. Army Joint Munitions Command
Announcement Number
MCGL254962006826HD Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 8, 2025 to Monday, September 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Would you accept a term appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Resume Length Pilot Acknowledgement
1. The Job Opportunity Announcement (JOA) states that resumes should be limited to 5 pages. If more than 5 pages are submitted, only the first 5 pages will be reviewed to determine your eligibility/qualifications. (NOTE: You may select either response A or B to acknowledge; this question serves only as a reminder of the notice on the JOA).
 A. I understand that I may submit my resume in any format of my choosing, however, if my submitted resume is over 5 pages, only the first 5 pages will be reviewed to determine eligibility/qualifications.
 B. I acknowledge the statement in response ‘A’.
Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.
1. The duties of this position meet the criteria for compliance with Federal and Department of the Army Drug Free Workplace Programs. Detection of the presence of drugs is warranted. This position is subject to a pre-employment screening, and random testing thereafter, to include testing based on reasonable suspicion and testing due to direct involvement with an on-duty accident. Are you willing to refrain from the use of illegal drugs and submit to a pre-employment drug screening and random testing thereafter to obtain and maintain employment in this position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. This position requires the incumbent to complete the Railroad Safety Course within 30 days of being appointed to this position and attend annual Railroad Safety refresher course. Are you willing to complete the Railroad Safety Course within 30 days of being appointed to this position and attend annual Railroad Safety refresher course?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. The duties of this position require the incumbent to possess or obtain and maintain a valid state Driver's License in one of the 50 U.S. states or possessions to operate vehicles. Do you currently possess or are you willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid license to comply with the requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4.

This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 65% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 65% of the time?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. This position requires the incumbent to possess, or obtain and maintain, a valid regular or official U.S. Passport. Are you willing and able to obtain and maintain the required passport for this position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Railroad Repairer position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
1. From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Railroad Repairer WG-05 duties without more than normal supervision.

 A. I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex complex task of removing or installing components of railroad tracks such as ties, track sections, switches, bolts, spikes, and other related parts; conducting precise measurement or adjustment of various components used in railroad track construction and maintenance; Visually inspecting tracks to identify defects such as loose spikes, defective ties, broken rails, uneven joints, washed-out ballast, or clogged drainage systems. I am skilled in using individually operated power tools such as pneumatic tampers, velocity rail punches, rail saws or drills, spike pullers, vibrators, spike drivers, large power wrenches, or similar equipment. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 B. I have the ability to perform the full range of of removing or installing components of railroad tracks such as ties, track sections, switches, bolts, spikes, and other related parts; measuring track parts to ensure they meet specific standards and specifications; I am skilled using basic power tools such as pneumatic tampers, rail saws, drills, spike pullers, vibrators, spike drivers, or large power wrenches. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 C. I have the ability to perform common skills such as selecting the appropriate tools for planned railroad repair; operating common railroad repair tools such as spike pullers, rail saws, rail drills, tamping bar, wrench, or tamping bar. I can adhere to safety guidelines applicable to railroad maintenance, ensuring compliance with industry standards. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 D. I have the ability to perform simple tasks such as performing visual inspection of railroad tracks; basic railroad maintenance repairs such as tightening bolts or switching out spikes; or using basic hand tools or power tools.
 E. I do not possess the abilities described above.
2. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected