Position Title
Aquatics and Sports Coordinator
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12803194 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 16, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Assessment 1
1. How many years of experience do you have with managing all daily operations of comprehensive fitness, sports and aquatics programs to include: planning, creating programs, scheduling, training a team, hiring, coordinating, hosting, and maintaining assessments for all programs?
 A. I have 3+ years of experience in the above.
 B. I have 2 to 3 years of experience in the above.
 C. I have less than 2 years of experience in the above.
 D. I have no experience with the above.
2. How many years of experience do you budgeting for multiple activities and analyzing cost income, expenses and bottom lines of financial statements? resume?
 A. I have 3+ years of experience in the above.
 B. I have 2 to 3 years of experience in the above.
 C. I have less than 2 years of experience in the above.
 D. I have no experience with the above.
3. Indicate below which of the following you possess.
 A. Undergraduate and Graduate Education in general recreation, or one of the appropriate fields of recreation such as outdoor recreation; recreation and parks leadership; wild land recreation management; natural resources recreation; youth recreation; public, urban, or community recreation; special populations recreation (e.g., senior citizens, institutional, etc.); or physical education. Note: If qualifying based on degree transcripts or degree must be provided at time of application.
 B. Specialized Experience that demonstrated the ability to apply the principles of one or more specialty areas of recreation. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include: * Planning, organizing, coordinating, supervising, or evaluating community, industrial, outdoor, institutional, or other recreational programs. * Planning, establishing, or evaluating a recreational curriculum for junior college or higher academic levels. * Instructing in the principles and techniques of recreational program planning and management. * Serving in a leadership role in the programs and activities of local, regional, and/or national recreational organizations.
 C. I have none of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. Must be able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license. Can you meet this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. How many years of experience do you have performing a full range of supervisory duties?
 A. I have 3+ years of experience in the above.
 B. I have 2 to 3 years of experience in the above.
 C. I have less than 2 years of experience in the above.
 D. I have no experience with the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
6. Must be able to obtain and maintain a Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation and First Aid certification. Can you meet this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected