Position Title
Child & Youth Program Custodian
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12815148 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 10, 2025 to Tuesday, October 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Child and Youth Program Custodian. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you.
 I have a high school diploma or equivalent.
 I have none of the above.


2.
How many years of experience do you have in using a variety of chemical and cleaning agents?
 I have 3+ years of experience in using chemical and cleaning agents.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in using chemical and cleaning agents.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in using chemical and cleaning agents.
 I have no experience in the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have in using a variety of household and industrial equipment and attachments within a work environment?
 I have 3+ years of experience in using a variety of household and industrial equipment and attachments within a work environment.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in using a variety of household and industrial equipment and attachments within a work environment.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in using a variety of household and industrial equipment and attachments.
 I have no experience in the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have with room setup and/or moving furniture in a work setting?
 I have 3+ years of experience with room setup and/or moving furniture in a work setting.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience with room setup and/or moving furniture in a work setting.
 I have less than 1 year of experience with room setup and/or moving furniture.
 I have no experience in the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙