Position Title
Intelligence Research Specialist
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
USBP-SMP-12797517-NMG Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 18, 2025 to Wednesday, September 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. (1) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is currently on Active Duty?

-OR-

(2) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs? In order to be considered under this appointment authority you must not currently be serving or have served under this authority. 

-OR-

(3) Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status? In order to be considered under this appointment authority you must not currently be serving or have served under this authority.

To verify your eligibility for option 1 identified above, you must submit official supporting documentation (i.e. copy of the Active Duty orders or statement of service)

To verify your eligibility for options 2 and 3 identified above, you must submit all supporting documents identified on the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15 (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (Member 4 copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; death certificate and documentation identifying marital status at the time of death; disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service, etc.). For information on how to request veterans documentation please contact the Veterans Affairs Benefits and Services at 1-800-827-1000   or online via https://iris.custhelp.va.gov/app/ask/ 

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans Resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This question applies to current DHS employees. If you are not a current DHS employee, select No.  If you claim only this eligibility, and you are not a current DHS employee, you will not receive further consideration for this position.   

Are you a current Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who is currently employed with DHS in a permanent competitive service position? DHS includes the following agencies: CBP, ICE, FEMA, FLETC, USCIS, USCG, USSS, etc.). Please visit http://dhsconnect.dhs.gov for a comprehensive list of all DHS agencies. 

Note: To verify your eligibility as a current DHS employee you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting: Tenure: Career or career-conditional (1 or 2) and Position Occupied: Competitive service (1).

If you do not meet any of the categories above, you must answer no to this question.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4.

The following question applies to a current permanent federal employee in the competitive service.  If you are not a current permanent federal employee in the competitive service, select No.   

Are you a current federal civilian employee with the Federal government in a permanent competitive service position? 

To verify your eligibility as indicated above, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action(s), Standard Form(s) 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form(s) reflecting your current permanent position in the competitive service 

Tenure (Box 24): Career or career-conditional (1 or 2)  
Position Occupied (Box 34): Competitive service (1)  

NOTE:  If you are a current federal employee in an excepted service position or other than permanent competitive service position then you are not eligible under this current federal employee eligibility.  If you have prior permanent competitive service with the federal government, you may be eligible as a reinstatement applicant if the announcement is open to former federal employees. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency? If yes, confirm:
You occupy (or have been separated from) a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6.

Are you a current or former land management employee eligible to apply under The Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act as described in 5 U.S.C 9602, who meets the conditions below?  

Hired for a temporary or term position under a competitive appointment.  

Served one or more temporary or term appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years.  

Performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service.  

If no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit the following: 

Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 reflecting your time limited status. 

Additional Standard Form 50s may be required to demonstrate a service period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years.  

Your most recent performance appraisal demonstrating fully successful, or equivalent.  See Additional Information section of vacancy announcement for further details.    

If you have had multiple periods of time-limited employment, you must show proof of acceptable levels of employment for each of the periods of employment used to satisfy the 24-month requirement.  

 A. Yes
 B. No
7.

Instruction: As a federal competitive service employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current federal employee, have you held a permanent position in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. To verify your eligibility as a current Federal civilian employee with promotion potential, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action(s), Standard Form(s) 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form(s) that reflect:   

Tenure (Box 24): Career or career-conditional (1 or 2); AND 
Position Occupied (Box 34): Competitive service (1); OR 
Position Occupied (Box 34): Excepted service (2); when in another merit system which OPM has an interchange; AND 
Promotion Potential equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced. 
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.

You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee with a confirmed Reemployment Priority List (RPL) registration that includes the following:
You have received notice that you will be displaced from the DHS, or
You have been separated by a reduction in force (RIF) from DHS within the last two years, or
You are fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year after compensation began, AND you have either separated from DHS due to a compensable injury or disability OR you have accepted a position at a lower grade or pay level in lieu of separation. 
 If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your eligibility, such as:
RPL registration documentation, AND
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
If recovered from a compensable injury, Department of Labor notification that injury compensation benefits will or have been ceased
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
are entitled to veterans' preference?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service. For information on how to request your veterans documentation please contact the Veterans Affairs Benefits and Services at 1-800-827-1000  or online via https://iris.custhelp.va.gov/app/ask/
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am applying as a VEOA and am not a current or former federal employee; OR I am a current or former federal employee eligible under the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act; OR I am applying as a Military Spouse.
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a current GS federal employee (or my previous federal employment in the last 52 weeks was) under one of the following appointments: temporary or as a Schedule B VEOA.
3. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by CBP. Individuals are required to have physically resided in the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law) for at least three of the last five years, before completing an application for CBP employment.

If you do not meet the residency requirement as stated above and you have been physically located in a foreign location for more than two of the last five years, you may request an exception to determine if you are eligible for a residency wavier by meeting one or more of the following conditions:
Working for the U.S. Government as a federal civilian or as a member of the military
A dependent who was authorized to accompany a federal civilian or member of the military who was working for the U.S. government
Participation in a study abroad program sponsored by a U.S. affiliated college or university
Working as a contractor, intern, consultant or volunteer supporting the U.S. government

Exceptions may be granted to applicants if they can provide complete state-side coverage information required to make a suitability determination. Examples of state-side coverage information include: the state-side address of the company headquarters where the applicant's personnel file is located, the state-side address of the Professor in charge of the applicant's "Study Abroad" program, and/or the state-side addresses of anyone who worked or studied with the applicant while overseas. If selected for a position, you must provide documentation to support a request for an exception.

Do you meet the residency requirement?
 A. Yes, for at least 3 of the last 5 years I physically resided within the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law).
 B. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am a current CBP employee.
 C. No, I do not meet this requirement and am therefore requesting an exception under one of the criteria listed above. I understand that if selected for this position, I will be required to provide supporting documentation for the period of time I have spent outside of the United States.
 D. No, I do not meet this requirement and am not requesting an exception. I understand that since I do not meet CBP’s residency requirement, I cannot be considered for a position with CBP at this time.
4. Are you receiving a civilian retirement annuity from OPM based on retiring from the Federal government? If you select yes and you are selected for this position, your salary will be off-set by the amount of your civilian retirement annuity.

To verify, you must submit a copy of your retirement SF-50 with your application package. It is also recommended to submit a copy of your most recent annuity statement.

Note, this does not apply to military retirement and annuity pay.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
6. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
7. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
8. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-12 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes applying (and modifying, if necessary) established intelligence practices to specific problems which involve many variables; documenting incident reports and preparing investigative reports; evaluating incoming intelligence reports and information; assessing threats and creating lookouts and developing and disseminating tactical information and intelligence; arranging for and participating in the briefing/debriefing of attaches and others returning from, or undertaking, foreign travel, assuring that all interested parties are represented and that all essential points are covered; and making agreements and commitments at meetings and conferences on intelligence matters in accordance with previously received instructions; and performing intelligence liaison functions with other organizations, including effectively presenting the organization's needs and establishing harmonious working relations with counterparts.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
9. If selected for this position, you must successfully complete a multi-week training at a designated training facility as outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement. Failure to successfully complete the required training course(s) in accordance with the standards and policies of Customs and Border Protection will be grounds for removal from the position. Such failure will result in either reassignment to a former or different position, demotion, or separation by appropriate procedures.

If you have previously attended this training, the requirement may be waived. If you answer "no" to the training agreement acknowledgment question below, you will be removed from further consideration for this position.

Do you acknowledge the training requirement and agree to the terms outlined in the job opportunity announcement and above?
 A. Yes, I confirm that I understand and agree to the term as outlined in the job opportunity announcement and above.
 B. No, I do not agree to the training requirement terms and understand that I will be removed from further consideration for this position.
Assessment 1
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
1. Indicate the extent of your experience collecting and extracting intelligence information.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had experience collecting and extracting intelligence information from unclassified sources (for example, the internet, newspapers, foreign broadcasts) for use by others.
 C. I have had experience collecting and extracting intelligence information from unclassified and classified sources (for example, foreign broadcasts, classified databases, secure telephone lines).
 D. I have had experience overseeing the collection and extraction of intelligence information from unclassified and classified sources (for example, foreign broadcasts, classified databases, secure telephone lines).
2. Indicate the extent of your experience reviewing, processing, and evaluating intelligence information.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had minimal experience reviewing, processing, and evaluating intelligence information.
 C. I have had experience reviewing, processing, and evaluating intelligence information to determine the significance of developments. Additionally, I have had experience assisting with the initiation, planning, and evaluation of research and analysis projects, policies and procedures.
 D. I have had experience leading the review, processing, and evaluation of intelligence information from multiple sources to assess its relevance and determine the significance of developments. Additionally, I have had experience initiating, planning, and evaluating research and analysis projects, policies and procedures.
3. Indicate the extent of your experience performing preliminary analyses and evaluations of intelligence data.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have a general understanding of analytic methods and techniques used to evaluate intelligence data, but limited hands-on experience in applying these methods/techniques on the job.
 C. I have had experience performing preliminary analyses and evaluations of routine intelligence data under the guidance of a supervisor or other senior individual.
 D. I have had experience independently performing preliminary analyses and evaluations of a wide range of intelligence data.
4. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of the intelligence cycle.

 A. I have no knowledge of the intelligence cycle.
 B. I have a strong understanding of the stages of the intelligence cycle and how it applies to collection, analysis, and evaluation.
 C. I have extensive knowledge of all phases of the intelligence cycle, from planning and direction to dissemination and the subsequent reevaluation of requirements.
5. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of the intelligence community.

 A. I have no knowledge of the intelligence community.
 B. I am familiar with the various intelligence collection disciplines of the intelligence community (e.g., HUMINT, IMINT).
 C. I am familiar with the various intelligence collection disciplines of the intelligence community (e.g., HUMINT, IMINT) as well as the missions and responsibility of the principal intelligence collectors.
 D. I am familiar with the various intelligence collection disciplines of the intelligence community (e.g., HUMINT, IMINT), the missions and responsibility of the principal intelligence collectors, and how the community is managed and overseen.
6. Indicate the extent of your experience developing and publishing intelligence products.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have developed aspects or sections of intelligence products with guidance from a supervisor or other senior individual.
 C. I have independently developed intelligence products and submitted them to a supervisor for review and publishing.
 D. I have extensive experience developing intelligence products. My work was typically subject to minimal review before publication.
 E. I have been responsible for providing the final review of finished intelligence products to assess the completeness and accuracy of the product and the proper application of policy and regulation, and have approved all final changes before publication. I have been the person ultimately responsible for ensuring a product's compliance with policy and regulation.
7. Indicate the extent of your experience extracting intelligence data from databases containing law enforcement, sentitive, financial, travel, and/or aggregated personal information.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training in extracting relevant intelligence data from databases, but have not yet applied this training on the job.
 C. I have performed routine intelligence data extractions of moderate complexity from law enforcement, sentitive, financial, travel, and/or aggregated personal information databases.
 D. I have extensive experience performing intelligence data extractions of both routine and nonroutine data of varying complexity from law enforcement, sentitive, financial, travel, and/or aggregated personal information databases.
 E. I am an expert in extracting routine and nonroutine intelligence data from law enforcement, sentitive, financial, travel, and aggregated personal information databases. Others seek me out to for assistance with intelligence extractions when creative methods or unusual approaches are required.
8. Have you been responsible for ensuring that sensitive and/or classified data are properly marked, stored, and handled?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Indicate the extent of your experience developing strategic, operational, and/or tactical intelligence.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have developed either strategic, operational or tactical intelligence.
 C. I have developed two of the following: strategic intelligence, operational intelligence, and/or developed tactical intelligence.
 D. I have developed strategic, operational, and tactical intelligence.
10. Indicate the extent of your experience initiating and maintaining contacts/liaison with counterparts and colleagues.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had experience in establishing and maintaining contacts/liaison with colleagues within my organization.
 C. I have had experience in establishing and maintaining contacts/liaison with counterparts and colleagues at Federal, state and local levels, as well as internal organizational components. This experience includes assisting higher authorities on complex matters and meetings on matters of operational concern.
 D. I have had extensive experience in establishing and maintaining contacts/liaison with high-level Federal, state and local levels, as well as internal organizational components, to include making formal presentations on complex matters and operational concerns.
11. Indicate the extent of your experience developing trends, patterns, profiles, and estimates.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. Under the close guidance of a supervisor or other senior individual, I have had experience performing simple data analyses to identify trends, patterns, and profiles.
 C. I have had some experience performing routine data analyses and statistical data reduction techniques on datasets to develop trends, patterns, profiles, and estimates.
 D. I have had extensive experience performing data mining, predictive analytics, and statistical data reduction techniques on large datasets to identify and validate consistent patterns, profiles, estimates, and/or systematic relationships between variables.
12. Indicate the extent of your experience interpreting intelligence findings and briefing superiors.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have reported primarily to my immediate supervisor, either formally or informally, on status and matters related to intelligence findings.
 C. I have given formal briefings to higher-level officials in my organization regarding program status and matters related to intelligence findings.
 D. I have given formal reports and briefings to executive-level officials both within and outside my organization regarding program status and sensitive intelligence findings.
13. Indicate the extent of your experience communicating with all levels of personnel within and outside your organization.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have conferred with others in my work unit on an individual basis.
 C. I have communicated with others within my organization (for example, project managers, senior management) to resolve problems, prevent potential conflicts, and ensure technical and operational requirements were met as part of my regular job duties.
 D. I have communicated extensively with others within my organization (for example, project managers, senior management) to reach/build consensus on policy or program issues of considerable consequence that have arisen.
 E. I have communicated extensively to present policy or program-related information or issues of considerable consequence or importance to groups within and outside my organization (for example, Government officials, senior management, other analysts, other agencies).
14. Indicate the extent of your experience communicating in writing.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written short responses to routine requests for information.
 C. I have written portions of reports, information papers, and other documents (technical and non-technical).
 D. I have independently composed written reports, information papers, briefing documents, formal correspondence, and other complete documents based on study findings and results of analyses.
 E. I have independently composed written reports, information papers, briefing documents, formal correspondence, and other complete documents for review by senior management. I have edited reports, documents, records, or other materials completed by lower-level employees or peers to verify completeness, correctness, and consistency.
15. Indicate the extent to which you have adjusted work operations to meet priorities or changing program requirements.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have adapted to minor or temporary changes affecting my own assignments or work schedule by rescheduling work or refocusing my efforts.
 C. I have rearranged some priorities and rescheduled a significant amount of work to accommodate changes in priorities or program requirements. I have recommended new methods in situations in which established procedures were unavailable or inapplicable.
 D. I have rearranged virtually all work priorities and schedules to accommodate sudden major changes in priorities or program requirements, problems, or setbacks. I have chosen or developed new methods in situations in which established procedures were unavailable or inapplicable.
16. Select the choice that best describes your ability to resolve conflicts as needed.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have conferred with others in my work unit on an individual basis to resolve work-related problems.
 C. I have communicated with others within my organization to resolve problems and prevent potential conflicts.
 D. I have communicated extensively with others within my organization to reach/build consensus on problems/issues that have arisen.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected