Position Title
Health Technician (Ophthalmology)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSX-12811894-26-CR Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 8, 2025 to Saturday, October 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Health Technician (Ophthalmology) position with the VA. Please provide an answer to each question. Answering "no" or failing to respond to any of the below questions will result in an ineligible rating


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency. Health Technicians (Ophthalmology) must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d) and 38 U.S.C. 7407(d). Are you proficient in written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you meet the Experience/Education requirement? Examples of Experience/Education are below:

Experience.
(1) One year of experience in a health care field, such as but not limited to nursing, medical assistant, or health technician. OR

Education.
(2) Two years above high school with a minimum of six semester hours directly related to a health care field or associate's degree in a health care related degree. OR

Experience/Education Combination.
(3) Equivalent combinations of experience and education are qualifying. Examples are listed below:
(a) Six months of experience in the health care field; and one year above high school; or
(b) Six months of experience in the health care field and successful completion of a course for health care technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or ophthalmology technicians given by the U.S. Armed Forces; or
(c) Six months of experience in the health care field and completion of an independent study course in Ophthalmic Medical Assisting.
 I possess one year of experience in a health care field, such as but not limited to nursing, medical assistant, or health technician.
 I possess 2 years above high school with a minimum of six (6) semester hours directly related to the health care field; an associate's degree in a health care related degree.
 I possess a combination of education and experience.
 None of the above apply to me.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Certification. Do you possess certification as a Certified Ophthalmic Assistant (COA) with the Joint Commission on Allied Health Personnel in Ophthalmology (JCAHPO)? The COA certification is JCAHPO's entry-level certification examination for a Health Technician (Ophthalmology).

Exception. Non-certified applicants who otherwise meet the minimum qualification requirements may be appointed as a graduate Health Technician (Ophthalmology) under the authority of 38 U.S.C. 7405(c)(2)(B). The appointing official may waive the requirement of certification for a period not to exceed two years for a Health Technician (Ophthalmology) that provides care under the supervision of an Ophthalmologist. The exception only applies below the full performance level. For grade levels at or above the full performance level the candidate must be certified. Failure to obtain COA certification during that period is justification for termination of the temporary appointment and may result in termination of employment
 Yes
 No


4.
Experience GS-07: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, do you possess one year of experience equivalent to the GS-6 grade level AND can demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities:
Knowledge of anatomy and function of the eye and basic ocular pharmacology;
Knowledge of outpatient eye care policies and procedures in a health care environment;
Ability to use basic ophthalmic diagnostic equipment to perform preliminary ocular testing;
Ability to perform minor extraocular surgical assisting; and
Ability to provide eye care patient education.
Examples of GS-6 experience is as follows: Assists ophthalmology staff by obtaining an accurate medical and ophthalmic history, measuring and recording visual acuity, administering anesthetic eye drops, performing basic tonometry, estimating the anterior chamber depth and recording a simple spectacle reading through automated lensometry. Deviations from regular procedures, unanticipated problems, complex patients and unfamiliar situations are referred to the supervisor for a decision or assistance.
 Yes
 No


5.
Experience GS-08: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, do you possess one year of experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level AND can demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities:
Ability to perform advanced tonometry and pupil evaluation;
Ability to perform calculations for selection of intraocular lens;
Knowledge of clinic based ophthalmic surgical assisting;
Knowledge of eye anatomy and physiology;
Knowledge of medication effects and proper instillation in the eye;
Knowledge of optics; and
Knowledge of proper cleaning and maintenance of clinic equipment.
Examples of GS-7 experience is as follows: Triages patient phone calls or requests; ensures exam rooms are stocked with adequate supplies; instructs patients on administration of eye drops and post-operative instructions; accurately measures, compares, and evaluates pupillary responses; administers eye drops to dilate pupils; performs basic color vision screening; performs visual field testing (using Amsler grid or automated equipment). Performs basic imaging testing such as corneal topography; external photography; performs basic ocular testing such as pachymetry, tear production with test strips, glare testing, stereo acuity, contrast sensitivity, potential acuity meter, measuring spectacles using both automated and manual lensometry and transposing cylinders.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙