Position Title
Physical Therapy Assistant
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12764568-25-CLC Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 4, 2025 to Tuesday, August 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
The following section is used to determine if you meet the basic requirements for this vacancy. Please choose the most appropriate answer in response to the following questions.
BASIC REQUIREMENTS: The following section is used to determine if you meet the basic requirements for this vacancy. Please choose the most appropriate answer in response to the following questions.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY: In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), no person shall serve in direct patient care positions with the Department of Veterans Affairs unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. EDUCATION: Individuals must meet at least one of the requirements below:

(1) Associate degree from an accredited community college, junior college, college or university in a physical therapy assistant education program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education; or
(2) Graduate of foreign physical therapy assistant degree programs that meet the educational requirement and have successfully passed the National Physical Therapy Exam (NPTE) for PTAs. or
(3) Graduate of military physical therapy assistant programs that meet the educational requirement and have successfully passed the NPTE for PTAs


Note: A copy of your transcripts is required.
 A. I have an Associate degree from an accredited community college, junior college, college or university in a physical therapy assistant education program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education.
 B. I am a Graduate of foreign physical therapy assistant degree programs that meet the educational requirement and have successfully passed the National Physical Therapy Exam (NPTE) for PTAs.
 C. Graduate of military physical therapy assistant programs that meet the educational requirement and have successfully passed the NPTE for PTAs.
 D. I do not have an Associate degree from an accredited community college, I have not passed the National Physical Therapy Exam, I am not a graduate of a military physical therapy assistant program.
3. LICENSE. Current, full, active and unrestricted license as a PTA in a State, Territory or Commonwealth (i.e. Puerto Rico) of the United States, or District of Columbia.

Exceptions for Non-Licensed Physical Therapy Assistant.

a) Non-licensed applicants who otherwise meet the minimum qualification requirements, but who do not possess state licensure, may be appointed, pending licensure, as a graduate PTA on a full-time temporary appointment under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7401(a)(1)(B) and not to exceed two years in accordance with the timeframe in 38 U.S.C. § 7405(c)(2)(B).(
b) Non-licensed individuals shall only provide care under the direct supervision of a licensed PTA or PT who meets all state regulatory requirements.
(c) Non-licensed individuals may only be appointed at the entry level and may not be promoted/converted until licensure is obtained.
(d) Temporary appointments of non-licensed PTAs may not be extended beyond two years or converted to a new temporary appointment.


Do you currently possess, or will you possess at time of appointment, the required license for Physical Therapist Assistant?
 A. Yes, I will possess this license by time of appointment
 B. Yes, I currently possess this license
 C. No, I do not possess this license however I am covered by the exception-Entry level only
 D. No, I do not and will not possess this license
GRADE REQUIREMENTS: In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met when determining the grade of candidates.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. GS-5 - Experience: In addition to the basic requirements, 6 months of experience comparable to the next lower grade level GS-4.

In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:

a. Ability to assess changes in physical, mental, and/or medical status.
b. Knowledge of treatment techniques needed to assess changes in physical, mental, and/or medical status.
c. Ability to recognize individual and cultural differences and respond appropriately in all aspects of physical therapy services.

Do you meet this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. GS-6 - Experience: In addition to the basic requirements, 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level GS-5.

In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:

a. Knowledge of evidence based physical therapy practice.
b. Knowledge of physical therapy data collection and ongoing assessment techniques in order to perform specified aspects of patient evaluation and interventions.
c. Knowledge of basic biological and medical science to assess patient data; make a preliminary determination of their needs; develop treatment goals and objectives; and implement patient treatment plans.

Do you meet this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. GS-7 Experience: In addition to the basic requirements, 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level. Assignments at this grade level (GS-6) serve as staff PTAs receiving little to no guidance from more experienced staff members for more complex patients and require general supervision by the treating physical therapist.

In addition to the one year of experience at the GS 6 grade level, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:

a. Ability to organize data, format that data into a presentation, and present information pertinent to patient care in formal or informal settings. Examples may include providing in-service training to staff or formal presentations to the treatment team.
b. Knowledge of contemporary physical therapy practice. This may be demonstrated through continuing education courses, in-service training, or journal article reviews.
c. Ability to independently implement selected components of interventions identified in the plan of care established by the physical therapist.


Do you meet this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. GS-8 Experience: Completion of 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level GS-6, and must fully meet the KSAs at that level.

In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following technical KSAs and demonstrate the potential to acquire the assignment specific KSAs designated by an asterisk:

a. Advanced knowledge of treatment techniques in order to assess changes in physical, mental, and/or medical status.
b. Advanced knowledge of physical therapy data collection and assessment techniques in order to perform specified aspects of patient evaluations and interventions.
c. Skill to manage and/or maintain responsibility for a specialty program.
d. Ability to lead a group of employees and communicate information regarding work assignments and scheduling.
e. Ability to instruct students and manage a trainee program for PTA students.


Do you meet this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 A. Yes, I understand the information provided above and certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
 B. No, I do not certify this information and do not wish to be considered for this position.
RESUME REMINDERS: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: * Job title * Duties (be as detailed as possible) * Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) * Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we can fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected