Position Title
Advanced Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist - CT/X-RAY
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12754733-25-DMD Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 9, 2025 to Tuesday, September 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Advanced Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist (IR/Vascular/X-ray) position with our West Palm Beach VA Healthcare System. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire. Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the qualification requirements for the position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement. Please provide an answer to each question. Full performance level for this position is GS-10.
BASIC REQUIREMENTS

The following section is used to determine if you meet the basic requirements for this vacancy. Please choose the most appropriate answer in response to the following questions.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. English Language Proficiency

DRTs must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), and 7407(d).

Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Education

Completion of a full-time training course of at least 24 months in duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from other accrediting agencies as recognized by the Department of Education (DOE) is required.

NOTE: A transcript from accredited colleges, universities, schools, or institutions must be submitted with your application.

Do you meet the above education requirement?
 A. Yes. (If your school was accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from other accrediting agencies as recognized by the Department of Education (DOE) at the time of graduation, but is no longer listed on the websites, or has changed names, you must provide documentation of accreditation with your application packet. Failure to do so will result in an ineligible rating) A transcript from accredited colleges, universities, schools, or institutions must be submitted with your application.
 B. No.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. Certification

All applicants must be certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (ARRT) (R). Advanced ARRT certification is required for assignments that include computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or Mammography (M) duties performed independently, as applicable. Advanced certification indicates that the incumbent can operate independently and has demonstrated specific clinical competency in the appropriate specialty and taken and passed the designated examination.

NOTE: You must submit a copy of your certification(s) with your application.

Do you hold a current certification/registration from the American Registry of Radiologic Technology (ARRT) in Radiography (R)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
GRADE REQUIREMENTS -  In addition to the basic requirements for appointment,. the following is used to determine the grade requirements for an Advanced Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist at the GS-10 grade level for the following Specialized Assignments:
General Radiologic Technology (R). DRTs perform procedures and examinations in hospitals or clinics under the direction of radiologists and other medical officers. The objective of the examinations and procedures is to produce radiographic studies that are used in medical diagnosis and interpreted by medical officers to locate injuries, foreign bodies, pathological conditions, or lesions within the body. They prepare and administer contrast media and medications in accordance with State and Federal regulations. All DRTs must be knowledgeable in computerized [and digital radiography (CR/DR),] and picture archiving and communications systems (PACS).
Computed Tomography (CT). This specialty modality requires specific knowledge of cross sectional human anatomy and its application in spiral, and/or, multi-slice computer tomography, inclusive of 3-D reconstruction scans, including drainages, biopsies, and peripheral vascular examinations. The technologist requires specific knowledge and training in the location, appearance, and function of the various major and minor systems susceptible to radiological illumination; to interpret the examination request accurately; to understand the functioning and interrelationship of the various organs; to use the methods and techniques which will identify organs appearing on the digital display monitor, or on film, and the various stages of the examination to judge the acceptability of the image and/or scan for diagnostic use and to emphasize the aspects of interest to the physician. [DRT assignments that include performance of independent duties in this subspecialty require Advanced ARRT certification.]
Your responses are subject to verification and must be demonstrated in your resume. Please be as detailed as possible in your resume and ensure you demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or knowledge, skills and abilities required for the position. We may not make assumptions regarding your experience.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist - GS-10

Experience - Candidates must have at least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-09), directly related to the position being filled that demonstrates the clinical competencies described at that level.

Assignment - For all assignments above the full performance level, the higher-level duties must consist of significant scope, complexity (difficulty), and range of variety, and be performed by the incumbent at least 25% of the time.

Specialized Assignments. Specialized areas of radiologic technology for this position include general diagnostic radiologic technology (R), and computed tomography (CT).
General Radiologic Technology (R). DRTs perform procedures and examinations in hospitals or clinics under the direction of radiologists and other medical officers. The objective of the examinations and procedures is to produce radiographic studies that are used in medical diagnosis and interpreted by medical officers to locate injuries, foreign bodies, pathological conditions, or lesions within the body. They prepare and administer contrast media and medications in accordance with State and Federal regulations. All DRTs must be knowledgeable in computerized [and digital radiography (CR/DR),] and picture archiving and communications systems (PACS).
Computed Tomography (CT). This specialty modality requires specific knowledge of cross sectional human anatomy and its application in spiral, and/or, multi-slice computer tomography, inclusive of 3-D reconstruction scans, including drainages, biopsies, and peripheral vascular examinations. The technologist requires specific knowledge and training in the location, appearance, and function of the various major and minor systems susceptible to radiological illumination; to interpret the examination request accurately; to understand the functioning and interrelationship of the various organs; to use the methods and techniques which will identify organs appearing on the digital display monitor, or on film, and the various stages of the examination to judge the acceptability of the image and/or scan for diagnostic use and to emphasize the aspects of interest to the physician.
DRT assignments that include performance of independent duties in this subspecialty require Advanced ARRT certification.

Advanced Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist - Employees are trained to work in one or more difficult and complex modalities performing procedures related to these modalities as well as performing general diagnostic procedures. At this grade level, any assignment in a single modality must demonstrate significant complexity. Such assignments are unique, perhaps with expert specialization in complex areas of radiologic technology, Mammography Quality Standards Act (MQSA) regulations, and intermediate Quality Management (QM) type duties within the program.

In addition to the required experience and clinical competencies, the candidate must also demonstrate all of the following technical Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):
Knowledge of radiation protection standards, devices and techniques, including concepts of accumulated dosage, dose monitoring, and genetic changes.
Ability to utilize advanced imaging software that supports complex imaging programs and recognize changes in equipment and procedures that might result in increased exposures, and ability to recommend methods to prevent such exposures.
Knowledge of basic physics including concepts of energy, electric power, magnetic fields, and properties of x-ray, to understand the operation of the equipment.
Knowledge and skill in positioning of patients for a wide variety of highly complex imaging (CT, MRI, IR, ultrasound, mammography) studies.]

Do you meet the clinical competencies -AND- possess the Advanced ARRT certification in Computed Tomography (CT) -AND- the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) as outlined here and in the qualification standards section of the announcement?

NOTE: Please ensure how you meet these clinical competencies -AND- the KSAs are clearly described in your resume; we may not make assumptions regarding your experience.
 A. Yes
 B. No
REMINDER - You must provide a complete application package which includes:
Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title and Grade Level (for Federal positions)
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and knowledge, skills and abilities required for the position)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Proof of current certification, licensure or registration (if applicable)
Veteran's Preference does NOT apply to this occupation for FY 2025 per OCHCO Bulletin Subject: Annual Determination of Staffing Shortages, dated 10/01/2024. Although hybrid title 38 occupations follow title 5 Veterans' preference rules, as required by the Merit Systems Protection Board (Graves v. VA, 117 M.S.P.R. 697 (2012)), 38 U.S.C. 7412 WAIVES the requirement to apply Veterans' preference to external applicants for appointments made during the fiscal year to hybrid title 38 occupations among those reported to have the largest staffing shortages.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected