Position Title
Supervisory Medical Administration Specialist (Facility Director)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
OCA-12769492-25-MLB Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 24, 2025 to Monday, September 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position you will be separated from; AND,
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; AND, 
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Supervisory Medical Administration Officer position with the Northeast Ohio VA Healthcare System.
1. Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Supervisory Medical Administration Officer work at the GS-09 level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.

 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as experience which equipped you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities required to perform successfully the duties of the Supervisory Medical Administration Officer, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position. Examples of specialized experience include: Serving as a primary point of contact for a specific subject area; Collecting, compiling, organizing, and analyzing information to make determinations; Responding to requests or complaints from customers; Reviewing reports, documents, records, data, or other materials to verify completeness, correctness, consistency, compliance, or authenticity; Admitting clients/patients into programs; Monitoring programs, projects, operations, or activities; Monitoring others' work; and Using computer systems or applications to process data for determining entitlement of benefits.
 B. I have successfully completed a master?s or equivalent graduate degree or two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or an LL.B. or J.D., if related to the work of this position. (Transcripts must be submitted).
 C. I have a combination of education and experience to qualify at the GS-09 level. This can be determined by adding total qualifying experience as a percentage of the required experience and education as a percentage of the total required. The total percentage must equal 100 percent. Only education more than the first 18 semester hours (i.e. beyond the first-year graduate level education) is creditable towards meeting the specialized experience requirement. A transcript must be submitted with your application if you are basing all or part of your qualifications on education.
 D. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
2. Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Supervisory Medical Administration Specialist work at the GS-11 level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.

 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as experience which equipped you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities required to perform successfully the duties of the Supervisory Medical Administration Specialist, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position. Examples of specialized experience include: Examples of specialized experience include, but are not limited to: Serving as primary point of contact for a medical or business office for the public; explaining technical or other complex information orally relative to National directives and public laws governing eligibility for healthcare for patient access; identifying needs or problems associated with health care administration; processing administrative issues (i.e. consults, return to clinic orders, recall reports, financial assessments, insurance capture, patient registration, etc.); promoting a good working relationship with key individuals or groups; monitoring, maintaining, and updating data, records, or other information; reviewing reports, development of documents (i.e. Issue Briefs, correspondence, Congressional inquiries, etc.), records, data, or other materials to verify completeness, correctness, consistency, and compliance; notifying individuals of decisions, problems, or further actions needed; and maintaining a working knowledge of relevant laws, regulations, policies, standards, or procedures.
 B. I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related to the work of the position. (Transcripts must be submitted).
 C. I have a combination of education and experience to qualify at the GS-11 level. This can be determined by adding total qualifying experience as a percentage of the required experience and education as a percentage of the total required. The total percentage must equal 100 percent. Only education more than the first 18 semester hours (i.e. beyond the first-year graduate level education) is creditable towards meeting the specialized experience requirement. A transcript must be submitted with your application if you are basing all or part of your qualifications on education.
 D. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected