Position Title
Chief of Staff
Agency
U.S. Secret Service
Announcement Number
HUM-AA-12814999-26-SS Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 17, 2025 to Thursday, October 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position and meet the ALL of the following? 
Located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; and
Applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice.
SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), that reflects all of the following:
Position, grade level (GS-15 or below), and duty location; and
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is "1" or "2" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34), or excepted service without time limit (Position Occupied is "2" in block 34) who is covered by a law providing both noncompetitive appointment eligibility to, and selection priority for, competitive service positions.
Any documentation from agency that shows current promotion potential; and
Latest performance appraisal including rating.
For more information, review Career Transition (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current United States Secret Service employee in the competitive service?

To verify eligibility, as a CURRENT Secret Service Employee you must submit your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following (you may need to submit more than one SF-50 to comply):
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is 1 or 2 in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34); and
Highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent SF-50); and
Time-in-grade eligibility.
Please note: Examples of appropriate Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, include promotions and with-in grade/range increases. While a General Adjustment and/or Award SF-50 may be your most recent SF-50 it typically DOES NOT show proof of Time in Grade. Thus, you may need to submit more than one SF-50 as proof of Time in Grade.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
All applicants must complete the following section. This section will be used to determine your ability and willingness to accept certain conditions of employment or meet certain requirements of the position. Please respond 'Yes' or 'No' to the following statements. Failure to respond to this section will result in an ineligible rating.


All applicants must undergo a comprehensive background investigation. The background investigation focuses on your honesty, reliability, police record, financial record, use of alcohol and drugs, mental health, and employment record. The background investigation includes interviews with your past and present employers, neighbors, teachers, and references, as well as checks of law enforcement, credit, educational, medical, and other records.


1.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF-50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


2.
If I receive a conditional offer of employment, I am willing to undergo a pre-employment drug screening.
 Yes
 No


3.
Recruiter ID Number: If you have one, please enter your recruiter's ID number. (Your recruiter would have supplied it to you). If you do not have one, please enter 0 (zero).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Chief of Staff position with the United States Secret Service. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Chief of Staff at the GS-15 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service which includes coordinating strategic and operational initiatives to support various human capital programs; providing guidance to senior leadership on human capital functions and administrative matters; supervising a team by assigning tasks, setting performance standards, training staff, or managing resources.
 My experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.

 Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙