Position Title
Community Recreation Director
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12820114 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, October 20, 2025 to Sunday, October 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the professional certifications to qualify for Community Recreation Director's position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.



1.
Bachelor's degree in Recreation or three years of comparable experience that illustrates a progression in management experience is required (Possesses comprehensive knowledge of recreation policies, requirements, administrative practices and procedures relating to the planning, budgeting, scheduling, and coordinating of recreational programs and the efficient operation and utilization of facilities and equipment. Must be capable of organizing and operating several facilities/programs simultaneously).
 I have a Bachelor’s degree in Recreation and will provide at time of interview
 I documentation that meets the three years of experience as described above
 I do not meet the required minimum requirements listed above.


2.
Knowledge of general business principles for financial planning/reporting and budgeting
 I have documented experience of the above
 I have no documented experience of the above


3.
This position is subject to the possibility of workdays on weekends and holidays and evenings, as well as rotating shifts, often consisting of other than normal duty hours. The staff member may be recalled to duty and/or required to work overtime, including on an emergency basis.
 Yes I am available to work all the above requirements
 No I am not available to work any of the above requirements


4.
Possess a valid state driver's license for operating government vehicles
 Yes I have a driver’s license
 No I do not have a driver’s license


5.
How many years do you have coordinating activities and events
 Three plus years of documented experience
 Two to Three years of documented experience
 One to two years of documented experience
 Less than one year of documented experience
 No documented experience


6.
How many years of experience do you have supervising employees
 Three plus years of documented experience
 Two to three years of documented experience
 One to two years of documented experience
 Less than one year of documented experience
 No documented experience


7.
Indicate where you obtained your experience with facility management
 Experience that involves the above within the DoD
 Experience that involves the above within the other Federal Agencies
 Experience that involves the above outside in the civilian sector
 No documented experience


8.
Experience with budgeting and financial management
 Three plus years of documented experience
 Two to three years of documented experience
 One to two years of documented experience
 Less than one year of documented experience
 No documented experience


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙