Position Title
PROGRAM ANALYST (Title 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
OK-12735959-AR-25-049 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, June 3, 2025 to Thursday, July 10, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1. Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current member of the Oklahoma Army National Guard within the grades of E-1 through E-7 or willing and eligible to become a member of the Oklahoma Army National Guard?

This position requires active military membership in the Oklahoma Army National Guard as a condition of employment.  If you are NOT a current member of the OKNG you must submit documentation (DD 214, NGB 22, copy of an award/order, statement of service, etc., showing your previous military experience) with your application to receive consideration for this position.  Failure on your part to submit the requested documents will prevent you from being considered.  If you have any questions concerning this requirement, please contact our office.

 A. I am a current member of the Oklahoma Army National Guard in the military grades of E-1 through E-7.
 B. I am NOT a current member, but I am willing and eligible to become a member of the Oklahoma Army National Guard and would be able to meet the E-1 through E-7 military grade requirement. I understand that I must submit documentation showing my current/previous military affiliation (DD 214, NGB 22, copy of an award/order, statement of service, etc.) with my application and that failure to do so, will prevent further consideration for this position. I will contact this office at 405-228-5581 if I need clarification.
 C. I am NOT a current member nor am I willing and or eligible to become a member of the Oklahoma Army National Guard.
Assessment 1
Respond to all questions. For each, choose the response that best describes your experience and/or training. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application.
1. Do you possess experience in administrative, professional, investigative, technical or other responsible work which demonstrates analytical ability and a practical and theoretical knowledge of the functions, processes and principles of management? Experience using computer and automation systems.

 A. Yes. I have experience performing most of the above duties.
 B. No. I do not have experience performing most of the above duties.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. Do you possess 24 months experience which has provided a working knowledge of the National Guard organizational structures, functions, procedures, and techniques? Experience analyzing, interpreting and developing policies and procedures of local management.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
3. Knowledge of management principles, organizational theory and techniques of analysis.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
4. Knowledge of agency administrative guidance and operating procedures.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
5. Analytical ability to develop information required to determine feasibility and legality of proposed program and operational plans.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
6. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification using your resume. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify the information provided above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected