Position Title
Supervisory Wildland Firefighter - Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Interior, Bureau of Indian Affairs
Announcement Number
DHA-25-12795779-CBXH-DN Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 5, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.
 
2. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. This position is subject to the Indian Preference Act of 1934 (25 U.S.C. 472), which affords employment preference to qualified Native American candidates.  Proof of eligibility, in the form of a completed Verification of Indian Preference, BIA - 4432 Form, must be provided with your application by the closing date to be granted such preference.  

Are you claiming Indian Preference, and submitting your BIA-4432 Form?
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Preference in filling vacancies is given to qualified Indian candidates in accordance with the Indian Preference Act of 1934 (Title 25, USC, Section 472). Verification of Form BIA-4432 must be submitted with the application if claiming Indian Preference.
1. Are you submitting Form BIA-4432, Verification of Indian Preference for Employment in the Bureau of Indian Affairs, to claim Indian Preference? Note: You must include your Form BIA-4432. As outlined in the vacancy announcement, this is the ONLY Indian Preference Verification Form that will be accepted.

 A. Yes, I am submitting Form BIA-4432.
 B. No, I am not claiming Indian preference.
This position has been designated as an Incidental Operator under the Indian Affairs Motor Vehicle Safety Program and requires the incumbent to operate a motor vehicle in order to properly carry out his/her assigned duties but whose principal duties are not operating a motor vehicle and his/her position is not classified as a motor vehicle operator. The incumbent will be required initially and annually to acknowledge and certify possession of a valid state driver's license.
2. Do you possess a current, valid driver's license?
 A. Yes
 B. No
MAXIMUM ENTRY AGE (MEA) RESTRICTION
3. This position is a primary firefighter position and covered under the special retirement provisions for firefighters subject to maximum entry age and mandatory retirement. In accordance with Public Law 107-27, applicants must meet age and/or service requirements. The maximum entry age is the date immediately preceding your 37th birthday. Select the appropriate statement from the choices below to identify how you meet the maximum entry age legal requirement. Please mark only one response below. (Note: This requirement may be waived only for preference eligible veterans, if proper documentation is provided).

 A. I am currently under 37 years of age.
 B. I am currently 37 years of age or older, but I have prior Federal service in a covered primary law enforcement or firefighter position. I have included applicable SF-50's in this application packet to prove I will be eligible to retire on or before the mandatory retirement age.
 C. I am 37 years of age or older, but I am exempt from the maximum entry age requirement because I am a veteran’s preference eligible, or I am eligible under the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA).
 D. I am currently 37 years of age or older and the above choices are not applicable to me.
This position is categorized as a Fire Helicopter Crew Supervisor (FHCS) under the BIA Exclusive Use Helicopter Module Position Standards and the Interagency Standards for Fire and Fire Aviation Operations Guide and requires the following qualifications which are considered mandatory selective factors: Helicopter Manager (HMGB) or higher, AND Incident Commander Type 4 (ICT4) or higher, AND Helibase Manager Type 2 (HEB2) or higher. You must provide a current copy of your Incident Qualification and Certification System (IQCS) master record or other agency equivalent documentation which verifies you meet the required NWCG qualifications for this position when submitting your application. Please indicate which of the following qualification or training certificates you possess:
4. I have held or currently hold the NWCG qualification of Helicopter Manager (HMGB) or higher; AND Incident Commander Type 4 (ICT4) or higher; AND Helicopter Manager (HMGB) or higher. I will provide a copy of my IQCS master record or equivalent documentation as instructed in the vacancy announcement.

 A. Yes
 B. No
You are required to carefully answer every question in this questionnaire. If you do not answer all of the questions it can affect your eligibility for this position.
5. Carefully read the following description of experience. Select one statement that best describes your qualification for a Supervisory Wildland Firefighter, GS-09. Make sure your resume supports the response you select.
 A. I have 1 year of specialized work experience equivalent to at least the GS-08 level in the Federal service. Examples of specialized experience include, but are not limited to, forestry technician work; forest or range fire control, prevention or suppression work; manages helicopter operations by providing pilots, crews, and dispatchers with instructions on incident objectives; determines incident needs, orders personnel, equipment and supplies; performs contract administration; issues work orders and notices of contract non-compliance; instructs training courses; provides technical expertise for helicopter projects and operations such as helitack, reconnaissance, surveying, search and rescue, bucket/tank drops, external loading, aerial ignition, spraying and seeding; performs aerial and ground fire assessments, develops wildland fire control strategies and tactics.
 B. I do not have experience as described in any of the above statements.
6. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected