Position Title
REGIONAL TRAINING SPECIALIST
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
JRM-25-448 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 18, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1. This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. Choose the statement that best describes your experience and/or education related to this position. (Resume provided must reflect experience, must provide official transcripts, and/or must provide personnel action/SF50)
 A. Bachelor’s degree in training, workforce development, organizational management, education, etc. or related field AND 2 years full time work experience directly related to performance and/or service improvement such as customer service/relations, performance management, facilitator certification (train-the trainer), team building, process improvement, organizational behavior, or change management (MUST provide official transcripts AND resume MUST reflect experience)
 B. 5 years full time work experience directly related to performance and/or service improvement such as customer service/relations, performance management, facilitator certification (train-the trainer), team building, process improvement, organizational behavior, or change management (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 C. 1 year of full time work experience directly related to above at the NF-03 / GS-07/08 level is required (MUST provide personnel action/SF50)
 D. None of the statements apply to me
2. Choose the statement that best applies to you (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 A. Currently holds a Training Specialist position or related position supervising or administering a training program within CNIC
 B. Currently holds a Training Specialist position or related position supervising or administering a training program within DOD
 C. Has held a Training Specialist position or related position supervising or administering a training program within the last 3 years
 D. None of the statements apply to me
3. Choose the statement that best describes your work experience related to this position. (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 A. Has 5+ years of full time work experience supervising or administering a training program
 B. Has 3+ years of full time work experience supervising or administering a training program
 C. Has 1+ years of full time work experience supervising or administering a training program
 D. None of the statements apply to me
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected