Position Title
Health Technician (Ophthalmology)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTB-12827406-26-EDM Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, November 3, 2025 to Thursday, November 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Charleston, SC
 B. Goose Creek, SC


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/


3.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Basic Requirements:


Select the response to best indicate how you meet the basic requirement for the Health Technician (Ophthalmology) occupation for the following 2 questions.


1.
Creditable Experience: To be creditable, experience must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) associated with a health care field or knowledge, skills, and abilities related to the current occupation. This may be paid or non-paid employment in the health care field.
 Experience. I have one year of experience in a health care field that demonstrates my ability to perform the work or provides an understanding of the work such as but not limited to a medical or clinical assistant (or technician) or health technician. I understand that I must fully detail this experience in my resume and that failure to do so may result in a not qualified rating.
 Education. I have completed four academic years above high school leading to a bachelor's degree with courses related to the occupation (transcript required)
 Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combination of experience and education are qualifying for entry level for which both education and experience are acceptable. Examples are:(a) Six months of experience in the health care field and two years of education above high school that included at least six semester hours in health care related courses such as, biological science, surgical technician courses, nursing assistant or other courses related to the position; or an associate's degree in a health care related field; or b) Six months of experience in the health care field and successful completion of a course for health care technicians, hospital corpsmen, or medical service specialists given by the U.S. Armed Forces. I understand that I must fully detail this experience in my resume and that failure to do so may result in a not qualified rating. I also understand that I must submit transcripts.
 Grandfathering provision: I was employed with the VHA on the effective date of the qualification standard (February 7, 2018) and have remained employed in that position. I understand that I must submit appropriate SF-50s (Notification of Personnel Action) to document this.
 I do not meet either of the requirements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
English Language Proficiency: To be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C., chapter 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in Veterans Health Administration, you must be proficient in spoken and written English.

Are you proficient in both spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


3.
Certification: All applicants must be certified as a Certified Ophthalmic Assistant (COA) with the Joint Commission on Allied Health Personnel in Ophthalmology (JCAHPO). The COA certification is JCAHPO's entry-level certification examination for a Health Technician (Ophthalmology).
 I am certified with the JCAHPO.
 Grandfathering provision: I was employed with the VHA on the effective date of the qualification standard (February 7, 2018) and have remained employed in that position. I understand that I must submit appropriate SF-50s (Notification of Personnel Action) to document this.
 I am not certified with the JCAHPO, nor do I meet the grandfathering provisions as identified in the Job Opportunity Announcement.


Grade-Specific Requirements:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
GS-8 Requirements: This is the full performance level for this occupation. In addition to meeting the basic requirements for the occupation, applicants must also meet the GS-8 requirements.

To qualify for the GS-8 grade level, applicants must have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level.

At the GS-7 grade level, assignments include, but are not limited to: Triages patient phone calls or requests; ensures exam rooms are stocked with adequate supplies; instructs patients on administration of eye drops and post-operative instructions; accurately measures, compares, and evaluates pupillary responses; administers eye drops to dilate pupils; performs basic color vision screening; performs visual field testing (using Amsler grid or automated equipment). Performs basic imaging testing such as corneal topography; external photography; performs basic ocular testing such as pachymetry, tear production with test strips, glare testing, stereo acuity, contrast sensitivity, potential acuity meter, measuring spectacles using both automated and manual lensometry and transposing cylinders. The employee assists the ophthalmologist during minor ophthalmic surgical procedures and is adept at applying sterile technique and infection control procedures. Performs autorefractor to determine spectacle prescription.

Additionally, applicants must demonstrate all of the following knowledge, skills, and abilities:
Ability to perform advanced tonometry and pupil evaluation.
Ability to perform calculations for selection of intraocular lens.
Knowledge of clinic based ophthalmic surgical assisting.
Knowledge of eye anatomy and physiology.
Knowledge of medication effects and proper instillation in the eye.
Knowledge of optics.
Knowledge of proper cleaning and maintenance of clinic equipment.

Do you meet these requirements? You must clearly detail this is your resume. Failure to do so may result in a not qualified rating.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙