Position Title
PROGRAM ANALYST
Agency
Defense Threat Reduction Agency
Announcement Number
DTRA-25-12783093-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 2, 2025 to Monday, September 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a position with higher graded promotional potential than previously held?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. .

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and are applying a for a promotion?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).



 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and have held a position at or above the target grade for this position?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).


 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
are entitled to veterans preference?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
12
13
Assessment 1
1. From the descriptions below, select the letter that best describes your level of specialized experience for the Program Analyst, GS-0343-12/13 position. To be creditable, specialized experience must be at the next lower grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. Read each of the statements below completely before making your selection.
 A. (For GS-12) I have one year of specialized experience at the next lower grade (GS-11) or equivalent in the federal service (experience may be gained in the private sector). Specialized Experience is defined as: Experience applying a wide range of qualitative and quantitative methods for the assessment and improvement of program management processes and systems; Experience researching, interpreting, and applying administrative laws, policies, regulations, and precedents applicable to DoD acquisitions, Economy Act and Interagency Acquisitions, and government contracts; Demonstrated experience with project management to support management of test/assessment programs/projects financial planning and acquisition; Experience with managing schedules and developing detailed plans for the long-range implementation and administration of the program; Experience managing and planning federal budgets. Familiarity with planning budgets to meet OSD obligation and expenditure rates, and; Ability and skill in designing and conducting management studies. (Experience must be clearly demonstrated in your resume).
 B. (For GS-13) I have one year of specialized experience at the next lower grade (GS-12) or equivalent in the federal service (experience may be gained in the private sector). Specialized Experience is defined as: Expert knowledge of a wide range of qualitative and quantitative methods for the assessment and improvement of program management processes and systems; Expert knowledge of the range of administrative laws, policies, regulations, and precedents applicable to DoD acquisitions, Economy Act and Interagency Acquisitions, and government contracts; Expert knowledge of project management to support management of test/assessment programs/projects financial planning and acquisition. Must be able to manage schedule to develop detailed plans for the long-range implementation and administration of the program; Demonstrated experience managing and planning federal budgets to meet OSD obligation and expenditure rates; Ability and skill in designing and conducting comprehensive management studies, and preparing solutions to especially broad, important, and severe management problems in order to analyze issues of effectiveness and efficiency, and; Ability and skill in planning, organizing, and directing team study work, and effectively conducting critical negotiations with Agency senior level management, outside agency senior level management, and representatives of NATO countries in order to influence others to accept and implement findings and recommendations. (Experience must be clearly demonstrated in your resume).
 C. My experience is not reflected in the statements above.
2. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your prior experience with managing government funds.

 A. I have never been required to manage government funding.
 B. I have had limited experience with management of government funding. However, I have little knowledge in this area.
 C. I have had a lot of experience managing government funding and budgets. I consider myself competent in this area.
 D. I believe I am an expert in managing government funding.
3. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your understanding of the terms "obligations" and "expenditures" as they relate to management of DoD funding.

 A. Obligations are items that must be paid. Expenditures are items that have been paid.
 B. An obligation is a requirement, while an expenditure is optional.
 C. Obligations are orders placed, contracts awarded, and goods or services received. An expenditure is an actual disbursement of funds in return for goods or services.
 D. None of the above.
4. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your understanding of the term "severability" as it relates to DoD funding.

 A. Severability refers to the ability to split funding between different obligations.
 B. Severability is not an actual term used in relation to DoD funding.
 C. Severability refers to the ability to obligate funding for use in multiple fiscal years.
 D. Severability is a term that describes a contract that can readily be cancelled, or “severed”.
5. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your prior experience in developing a cost estimate for a government budget.

 A. I have a great deal of experience developing cost estimates and I have trained others in this skill.
 B. I have some previous cost estimating experience, but I am not an expert.
 C. I have never prepared a cost estimate.
 D. I have only ever developed one cost estimate.
6. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your prior experience with developing a budget to meet specific programmatic goals or deadlines.

 A. I manage my personal budget but have not budgeted for an organization.
 B. I have developed and executed a budget for a project that met the goals and deadlines.
 C. I have developed and executed a budget for a program or multiple programs that met goals and deadlines.
 D. I have developed and executed budgets for projects or programs using different types of government funds, meeting all required goals and deadlines.
7. From the following responses, please select the statement that quantifies how long appropriated funds remain in the expired stage following the period of availability.

 A. One year
 B. Five years
 C. Seven years
 D. Five years except for no-year appropriations
8. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your understanding of the term "commitment" as it relates to management of DoD funding.

 A. Commitment represents the administrative reservation and recording of funds for a specific purpose.
 B. Commitment represents the shifting of funds within an appropriation to purposes other than those contemplated at the time of appropriation.
 C. Commitment is the shifting of funds between appropriations and requires statutory authority.
 D. Commitment enables you to commit future appropriations to a current funding action.
9. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience managing multiple projects concurrently.

 A. I have never managed a project.
 B. I have successfully only managed one project at a time.
 C. I have successfully managed two or three projects concurrently.
 D. I have successfully managed four or more projects concurrently.
10. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your comfort level with managing multiple projects concurrently.

 A. I am not comfortable with managing more than one project at a time.
 B. I am comfortable with managing no more than two projects concurrently.
 C. I am comfortable with managing no more than three projects concurrently.
 D. I can manage up to six projects at one time.
11. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes how you handled last minute requirement changes from a customer.

 A. The Customer was always right. I would figure out how to accommodate the change.
 B. If the change was valid, or made sense, I would determine the impact to the activity, validate my planned course of action with higher headquarters, and then enact the change.
 C. I would refer the request to my supervisor.
 D. I would reject the request as planning had been completed. It is imperative to stick to the plan.
12. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes how you approach your work.

 A. I tended to pay attention to the items that were due soon or immediately. Other items were important when someone asked about them.
 B. I worked on the items that I was directed to work on and then waited for further directions.
 C. I created a task list for each day and focused on those tasks until complete.
 D. I determined the priority of all my tasks and tried to accomplish them in priority order, understanding that my priorities might have needed to change.
13. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your prior experience with problem solving.

 A. I have worked as a member of a team to identify issues/inefficiencies of a program or process and provided recommendations.
 B. When tasked, I have conducted reviews/studies of specific projects or issues and provided recommendations to resolve issues/inefficiencies.
 C. I have regularly conducted reviews of the projects/programs/processes within my area of expertise and developed remediation plans that were approved.
 D. I have held positions that required constant process improvement to multiple programs, developed and successfully implemented remediation plans.
14. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your prior job-related writing experience.

 A. I have limited prior experience with job related writing requirements.
 B. I have a moderate amount of prior writing experience, but writing has not been a major part of my previous duties.
 C. I have a great deal of job-related writing experience, and I am very comfortable with writing for work.
 D. I have extensive experience writing work-related papers, memorandums, essays, white papers, decision papers, and Standard Operating Procedures.
15. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience producing written work products.

 A. I have supported the development of work-related documents but required assistance or review of my product before final dissemination.
 B. I have produced basic written products (such as memoranda for record, emails, need statements, etc.) with minimal oversight for limited dissemination.
 C. I have produced mid-level written products (such as desk guides, SOPs, white papers/decision papers) with no oversight for broad dissemination.
 D. I have regularly produced high-level written products (such as Organizational Instructions, memoranda/white papers for internal or external agency leadership) with no oversight for high level dissemination.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected