Position Title
Wildland Firefighter (Aviation)-Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Bureau of Land Management
Announcement Number
FADHA-25-12758574-AE Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 3, 2025 to Monday, July 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Career Transition Assistance Plan:  Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced or surplused from the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which I have been or will be separated; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.   
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan: Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am currently in a position at the same grade level or higher than the position being announced; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Survey Questions
1. My resume contains hours worked per week for each season and position held. For example, 1 year of experience is equivalent to 12 months at 40 hours per week (full-time). Part-time hours are prorated. I understand that I will not receive any credit for a position listed that does not include hours worked per week.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. My resume contains the beginning and ending dates (month/year to month/year) and grade level (if federal service) for each period of work experience/employment. I understand failure to adequately include this information may affect my qualification determination for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I consent to the release of information about my ability and fitness for Federal employment by employers, schools, law enforcement agencies, and other individuals and organizations to investigators, human resource specialists, and other authorized employees or representatives of the Federal Government. I understand that for some other sources of information, a separate specific release may be needed, and I may be contacted for such a release at a later date.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I have read the "How to Apply" & "Required Documents" sections and understand that failure to submit any required documents may result in my being found not qualified.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I understand that additional selections may be made from this vacancy, within the same geographical area, by other bureaus from within the DOI, through shared recruiting activities, and my application may be shown to multiple hiring offices. Additional selections for similar positions across the entire Department of the Interior within the local commuting area(s) identified in this vacancy announcement may be made. By applying, I agree to have my application shared with any interested selecting official(s) within the DOI. There is no option to opt-out as my information will not be shared with other hiring agencies outside of the DOI. Applying to this announcement does not replace the need to apply to other job opportunity announcements for which you wish to receive consideration.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. I understand that I must ensure my resume, supporting documents (SF-50 or other official document to verify date of birth), transcripts, fire qualifications (IQCS), etc., are not password protected or contain redacted information that could make my application package ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported in your resume and supporting documents.
1. I have held or currently hold the following NWCG qualification: Ramp Manager (RAMP). I will provide a copy of my IQCS master record or equivalent documentation as instructed in the vacancy announcement.

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I qualify for the GS-09 level because I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-08 in the federal service. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience qualifying for this position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Identify Air Operations Positions you have experience in or are qualified for.

 A. Airtanker Base Manager (ATBM)
 B. Fixed Wing Base Manager (FWBM)
 C. MAFFS Airtanker Base Manager
 D. MAFFS Airbase Support Specialist
 E. Single Engine Airtanker (SEAT) Manager (SEMG)
 F. Aviation Project Manager
 G. Call When Needed Helicopter Manager (HCWN)
 H. Exclusive Use Fire Helicopter Manager (HELM)
 I. Helicopter Crewmember (HECM)
 J. Helibase Manager Type 2 (HEB2)
 K. Helibase Manager Type 1 (HEB1)
 L. Helicopter Boss, Single Resource (HELB)
 M. Aircraft Base Radio Operator (ABRO)
 N. Ramp Manager (RAMP)
 O. None of the above.
4. Indicate your experience level working with Single Engine Air Tankers.

 A. I am considered an expert in this field, working with all aspects of the Single Engine Air Tanker program at a national, state and local levels. I have performed as a SEAT Coordinator (SECO) in the field or at NIFC.
 B. I am or have been a Single Engine Airtanker Manager for an Exclusive Use contract and am very familiar with all aspects of the program.
 C. I am or have been a Single Engine Airtanker Manager and have completed multiple fire assignments as a manager with various types of aircraft.
 D. I am familiar with the Single Engine Airtanker Program but am not a Single Engine Air Tanker Manager.
 E. None of the above.
5. Select the answer that best describes your experience mixing aerial retardants.

 A. I have performed this task or used this competency numerous times and am highly proficient at applying it to work situations.
 B. I have limited experience performing this task.
 C. I have not performed this task or acquired this competency.
6. Select the answer that best describes your experience recording and tracking retardant deliveries to various fires.

 A. I have performed this task or used this competency numerous times and am highly proficient at applying it to work situations.
 B. I have limited experience performing this task.
 C. I have not performed this task or acquired this competency.
7. Identify the following tasks you have performed while administering a Federal exclusive use aircraft contract in the field:

 A. Ensure compliance with contract specifications as they relate to mission required equipment, systems and operation.
 B. Maintain contact with contracting officer.
 C. Identify differences between Call When Needed (CWN) and exclusive use contracts.
 D. Conduct pre-flight and post-flight inspections of aircraft and support equipment.
 E. Continuously monitor flight and/or duty hours of pilots, mechanics and fuel truck drivers to insure that hour limitations are not exceeded.
 F. Initiate and maintain administrative forms.
 G. Monitor work in progress.
 H. Observe, correct and evaluate Air Tanker Base management operations.
 I. Explain safety regulations and work procedures to the contractor or vendor.
 J. Establish layout of Air Tanker Base operations area, maintain inventory and accountability for property, equipment and personnel for the most efficient response.
 K. Administer SEAT contracts and apply agency guidelines.
 L. Serve as the primary Project Inspector (PI) and the alternate Contracting Officers Representative (COR).
 M. Observe, correct, and evaluate SEAT operations.
 N. Establish layout of SEAT base operations area, maintain inventory and accountability for property, equipment and personnel for the most efficient response.
 O. Administer Heavy Air Tanker contracts and applied agency guidelines.
 P. None of the above.
8. Select the answer that best describes your level of experience administering Federal Aviation Contracts.

 A. I have functioned as a Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) on federal aviation contracts or as a contract Project Inspector (PI) for Exclusive Use fire aircraft contracts.
 B. I have functioned as a Project Inspector (PI) on federal aviation contracts; or am qualified as a Call-When-Needed (CWN) SEAT or Helicopter Manager; or I am experienced as a Project Aviation Manager or Helicopter Manager on resource management aviation projects.
 C. I have some experience working with aviation contracts and contractors as a trainee Call-When-Needed (CWN) SEAT Manager or Helicopter Manager.
 D. I have no experience administering federal aviation contracts.
9. Select the statements from below that represent your knowledge and experience regarding the application of aircraft accident prevention concepts and methods.

 A. I have developed and applied aircraft accident prevention measures in the form of new aviation management policies, aircraft contract specifications and operational procedures at a national level of a natural resource agency.
 B. I have developed and applied aircraft accident prevention measures in the form of new aviation management policies, aircraft contract specifications and operational procedures at a state, regional or unit level of a natural resource agency.
 C. I have completed accredited university courses (or equivalent) in Aviation Safety Program Management, Aircraft Accident Prevention or Aviation Risk Management.
 D. I have developed and applied aircraft accident prevention measures as a military officer or manager of a commercial aviation firm.
 E. None of the above.
10. Choose the statement that best represents your knowledge level regarding Federal Aviation Regulations and regulatory processes affecting public and commercial aviation activities.

 A. I have experience planning and managing natural resource aviation activities utilizing government-owned and commercially procured aircraft.
 B. I have experience planning and managing aircraft operations as a commercial operator on contract with government natural resource agencies.
 C. I have experience planning and managing large scale military air operations involving both military aircraft and commercially procured aircraft.
 D. I have experience as a government technical compliance specialist in the area of aircraft maintenance, airworthiness, specialized aircraft equipment or pilot evaluation/certification.
 E. None of the above.
11. Indicate the following tasks related to aviation safety and accident prevention that you have performed as part of a job:

 A. Develop an aviation safety plan for an organization.
 B. Implement an aviation safety plan for an organization.
 C. Prepare and/or review Special Use Safety Plans for specific flights and projects to insure hazard and risk mitigation.
 D. Perform risk management assessments of on-going activities, proposed aviation missions, and/or over-all program standards.
 E. Analyze aviation program performance and systems to identify deficiencies.
 F. Initiate change in aviation organizational safety procedures and requirements to improve program performance and systems.
 G. Prepare Aviation Incident/Accident Response Guide for an organization.
 H. Update and disseminate Aviation Incident/Accident Response Guide for use in an organization.
 I. Provide guidance on the use of aircraft during Search and Rescue activities.
 J. Serve as the focal point for submission and review of aviation incident/hazard reports.
 K. Recommend corrective action to management and staff to remedy situations identified in incident/hazard reports.
 L. Provide follow-up on aviation incident/hazard reports to ensure unsafe conditions and operations are rectified.
 M. Prepare unit aviation incident/hazard reports summary, analysis and recommendations on an annual basis.
 N. Provide expertise in the operational planning of aviation activities on or near Military Training Routes or within Special Use Airspace.
 O. Coordinate with military, Federal Aviation Administration and other agency officials to deconflict airspace over public lands.
 P. Coordinate with military, Federal Aviation Administration and other agency officials to prepare cooperative airspace management agreements.
 Q. Perform aviation safety reviews in the field periodically or spontaneously.
 R. Serve as a member of aviation safety teams and accident investigation teams.
 S. None of the above.
12. I have developed and implemented an Aviation Management Plan in order to standardize aviation policy, procedures, procurement, training, and accident prevention measures for a natural resources and/or fire management program.

 A. True
 B. False
13. Indicate the following aviation management tasks that you have performed as part of a job:

 A. Conduct an aviation needs analyses with resource program managers.
 B. Plan and monitor an organizational aviation budget.
 C. Serve as a technical expert on national aviation management initiatives.
 D. Prepare, review, and disseminate aviation policy statements, memos, safety bulletins, manuals and/or handbooks throughout an organization.
 E. Advise program leaders of technical, administrative and fiscal requirements concerning aviation procurement.
 F. Monitor vendor, pilot and aircraft contract performance and mediate local problems.
 G. Manage an organizational aviation training program to meet organizational aviation training requirements and ensure that all employees managing, supervising, or involved in aircraft operations are well trained and fully qualified.
 H. Maintain an organization’s aviation training and qualification records.
 I. Analyze new aviation technology advances in aircraft avionics, navigational systems, support equipment and personal protective equipment for the application and enhancement of an organization’s aviation activity.
 J. None of the above.
14. Indicate your level of involvement responding to aviation incidents or accidents.

 A. I am considered a subject matter expert and have been a member of an accident investigation team appointed at a national level.
 B. I am responsible for maintaining the aviation accident/incident response guide for my unit, and I have been directly involved with supporting and responding to aviation related accident and investigation.
 C. I am responsible for maintaining the aviation accident/incident response guide for my unit, but I have not been directly involved with responding or supporting an aviation related accident and investigation.
 D. I have received multiple briefings on aviation accident/incident response guides from different agencies, and I am responsible for relaying any procedures for responding to accident/incidents to aircrew members that I work with.
 E. None of the above.
15. Indicate your level of writing aviation policy for a local unit.

 A. I am considered the primary individual who writes, reviews, and distributes all of the aviation policy documents for my unit.
 B. I have written some aviation policy for my unit, and I am considered an excellent source of knowledge for aviation policy.
 C. I have a good working knowledge of aviation policy and assist with writing aviation policy for my unit.
 D. I have not written any aviation policy for my unit.
16. Select all of the statements from below that best describe the type of work you have led:

 A. I have explained team goals and objectives to assigned team members and assisted team members in organizing to accomplish work.
 B. I have coached, facilitated, solved work problems and participated in the work of the team.
 C. I have provided information to the supervisor on performance of the team and individuals.
 D. I have communicated assignments, milestones, and deadlines to the team and individuals based on supervisor`s instructions.
 E. I have observed training needs and relay training needs and requests to supervisor.
 F. I have informed supervisor of attendance and behavioral problems.
 G. I have relayed requests for resources and supplies.
 H. I have no experience in team leader duties.
17. Select all of the statements below that describe the interpersonal communication skills that you routinely apply at work:

 A. Explain technical issues to a variety of individuals from within and outside of your agency or organization.
 B. Establish and maintain working relationships with representatives of other organizations.
 C. Provide advice, guidance or direction to staff on regulations and procedures.
 D. Clarify requirements, exchange routine information and obtain missing information.
 E. Negotiate issues among parties with differing interests to gain agreement on changes affecting the program or work product.
 F. Resolve conflicts by persuading others to accept new conditions, procedures or techniques.
 G. Interact in situations where shifts in priorities, work assignments, or deadlines occur frequently due to delays or unexpected events.
 H. None of the above.
18. Select all of the statements from below that best describe your supervisory responsibilities and experience:

 A. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities and skill levels.
 B. I have established measurable performance goals for subordinates.
 C. I have evaluated work performance of subordinates and have counseled them.
 D. I have initiated formal performance improvement plans.
 E. I have made final selection decisions for permanent positions.
 F. I have realigned staff assignments to accommodate work or workload changes.
 G. I have heard and have resolved complaints and grievances from employees and groups of employees.
 H. I have effected minor disciplinary measures and proposed major disciplinary actions.
 I. I have initiated awards and have approved training requests for subordinate employees including budgetary requirements
 J. I have limited supervisory experience.
 K. None of the above.
19. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected