Position Title
POWER PLANT MECHANIC A
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERK251208451112HW Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 22, 2025 to Friday, October 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Power Plant Mechanic A position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Pease review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training that you fully possess and that demonstrates your reliability and dependability to perform Power Plant Mechanic A duties.

 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex maintenance and repair duties. I am skilled performing inspection and review of installations, and repairs on mechanical equipment (generators, hydraulic/digital governors, turbines, pumps, air compressors, cranes, bearings, piping systems, HVAC equipment) at multipurpose hydroelectric generating plants, steam plants, or nuclear plants. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of maintenance and repair duties. I am skilled in troubleshooting, installation, and repairs on mechanical equipment (generators, hydraulic/digital governors, turbines, pumps, air compressors, cranes, bearings, piping systems, HVAC equipment) at multi-purpose hydroelectric generating plants, steam plants, or nuclear plants. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common maintenance and repair duties. I can perform preventive maintenance and repairs on mechanical equipment (generators, hydraulic/digital governors, turbines, pumps, air compressors, cranes, bearings, piping systems, HVAC equipment) at multi-purpose hydroelectric generating plants, steam plants, or nuclear plants. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple maintenance and repair duties. I have received training on performing preventive maintenance and repairs on mechanical equipment (generators, hydraulic/digital governors, turbines, pumps, air compressors, cranes, bearings, piping systems, and HVAC equipment) at multi-purpose hydroelectric generating plants, steam plants, or nuclear plants.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙