Position Title
Child and Youth Program Training and Curriculum Specialist
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12813512 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 8, 2025 to Saturday, October 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Child and Youth Program Training and Curriculum Specialist. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you.
 A Master's degree with a major in Early Childhood Education (ECE) or Child Development AND a minimum of 1 year of full-time experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have a 4-year degree in Early Childhood Education or Child Development AND 3 years of full time experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have a combination of education and experience (e.g. courses equivalent to a major in a field (24 higher level semester hours) appropriate to the position (see above) plus appropriate experience or additional course work that that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of the 4-year course of study described above AND 3 years of full time experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have none of the above.


2.
What is your highest level of education?
 I have a Master’s degree in Early Childhood, Elementary, or Special Education, Child and/or Youth Development, Psychology, Sociology, Home Economics (early childhood emphasis), or a related field of study.
 I have a Bachelor’s degree in Early Childhood, Elementary, or Special Education, Child and/or Youth Development, Psychology, Sociology, Home Economics (early childhood emphasis), or a related field of study.
 I do not have a degree, but I have a combination of education and experience.
 I have none of the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have in guiding and supporting the national accreditation of a child or youth program (e.g., experience with accreditation support, accreditation self-study or site visits)?
 I have 3+ years of experience with accreditation standards, as described above, in a Department of Defense (DoD) Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience with accreditation standards, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience with accreditation standards, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience with accreditation standards, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience with accreditation standards.
 I have no experience in the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have in curriculum planning and implementation?
 I have 3+ years of experience in planning and implementing curriculum in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in planning and implementing curriculum in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience in planning and implementing curriculum in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in planning and implementing curriculum in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in planning and implementing curriculum.
 I have no experience in the above.


5.
How many years of experience do you have in training adults?
 I have 3+ years of experience in training adults.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in training adults.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in training adults.
 I have no experience in the above.


6.
How many years of experience do you have in program planning to carry out a variety of programs (e.g., curriculum outlines, curriculum reviews, lesson plans, and/or assessments of program environments)?
 I have 3+ years in program planning, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years in program planning, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years in program planning, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years in program planning, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in program planning.
 I have no experience in the above.


7.
How many years of experience do you have in providing guidance and leadership to CYP Professionals (e.g., working as a mentor, program leader, lead teacher, or other supervisory experience)?
 I have 3+ years of experience in providing guidance and leadership to professionals, as described above.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in providing guidance and leadership to professionals, as described above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in providing guidance and leadership to professionals, as described above.
 I have no experience in the above.


8.
Do you have experience in overseeing the training program of one or more DoD Child and Youth Program areas: Child Development Centers (CDC), Family Child Care/Child Development Homes (FCC/CDH), Youth Programs (YP), and/or Child and Youth Education Services (CYES) (School Liaison)?
 I have experience in overseeing the training program in all four DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have experience in overseeing the training program in at least three of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have experience in overseeing the training program in at least two DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have experience in overseeing the training program in one of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have no experience in the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙