Position Title
Staff Kinesiotherapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-12755999-25-TH Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 2, 2025 to Friday, July 11, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in our Kinesiotherapist position. Be sure to read and understand the 'Area of Consideration' and the 'Qualifications' for this position before submitting your application. If you have questions please email me at teresa.hammond@va.gov
BASIC REQUIREMENTS. The basic requirements for employment as a Kinesiotherapist. To qualify for appointment to this position, all applicants must possess the following:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. English Language Proficiency.Kinesiotherapist candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by [38 U.S.C. § 7403 (f).]
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Education.
(1)A bachelor's degree [or higher from a program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Program, with a concentration/emphasis in kinesiotherapy. OR
(2)A bachelor's degree or higher with a concentration/emphasis in kinesiotherapy or exercise science related field and registered as a Kinesiotherapist in good standing with the COPSKT. OR
(3)A master's degree or higher with a degree in exercise science, kinesiology, human performance or a related field, which has been approved by COPSKT and a certificate verifying completion of a Center of Excellence (COE) Kinesiotherapy clinical training program. The completion of the certificate ensures that COPSKT has approved the degree program as part of the application process for the COE internship.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Registration.
All applicants must be registered in kinesiotherapy in good standing with the Council on Professional Standards for Kinesiotherapy (COPSKT).

Exception. Non-registered applicants at the GS-7 and GS-9 level who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for appointment, may be given a temporary appointment as a graduate kinesiotherapist under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(a)(1)(B). Pursuant to 38 U.S.C § 7405(c)(2)(B), the appointment cannot exceed two years if the non-registered applicant's registration is pending with the COPSKT. Applicants who fail to obtain registration during this temporary full- time appointment must be terminated. For grade levels at or above the full performance level, the candidate must be registered.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Grandfathering Provision. [ ]All persons employed in VHA [as a Kinesiotherapist] on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education and registration that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it, the following provisions apply:
[(1) Such employees ] may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance (journeyman) level, or [changed to a lower grade] within the occupation, but may not be promoted beyond the journeyman level or placed in supervisory or managerial positions.
(2)Employees who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard, may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed on a temporary or permanent basis until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard.
(3)Employees initially grandfathered into this occupation, who subsequently obtain additional education and/or license/certification/registration that meet all the basic requirements of this qualification standard, must maintain the required credentials as a condition of employment in the occupation.
[(4) Kinesiotherapists who are converted to title 38 hybrid status] under this provision,[and subsequently leave the occupation, will lose their] protected status, and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of re-entry to the occupation.
GRADE REQUIREMENTS AND DETERMINATIONS: In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met when determining the grade of candidates.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. [Kinesiotherapist,] GS-7:
Experience. None beyond the basic requirements

Assignment. Individuals at this grade level serve as [an entry level kinesiotherapist. The entry level kinesiotherapist receives guidance from more experienced staff members. They are responsible for but not limited to:] examination, evaluation, treatment intervention, and prevention of musculoskeletal, neuromuscular, cardiopulmonary, and integumentary impairments, functional limitations, and disabilities.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. [Kinesiotherapist,] GS-9:
Experience/Education. [One] year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level or [education equivalent to] two full years of [progressively higher level] graduate education or a master's degree [from a university or college in the field of kinesiotherapy or an exercise science related field.]

Assignment. Individuals at this grade level serve as [developmentalkinesiotherapists. They are responsible for examination, evaluation and treatment interventions that demonstrate a clear progression of clinical knowledge and experience by providing modified treatment interventions based on the patient's response (e.g. identifying individual risks, contra- indications, and advancement and progression of challenging treatment interventions) that utilize the application of innovative procedures and problem solving. Deviations from regular procedures, unanticipated problems, and unfamiliar situations are referred to more experienced staff fora decision or assistance. Assignments at this level will include develop mental duties of increasing scope and diversity as compared to the entry level. It is expected that kinesiotherapists at this grade, perform more complex work while receiving less frequent supervision than at the entry level.]
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. [Kinesiotherapist], GS-[11]:
Experience/[Education. One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or three academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a degree in kinesiotherapy or an exercise science related field.]

Assignment. This is the full performance level for the kinesiotherapist. Kinesiotherapists independently conduct assessments and develop treatment plans to the complexity of the diagnosis or disability using appropriate functional tests and measurements according to established evidence-based professional practices. The kinesiotherapists provide integrated and progressive skilled rehabilitative treatment modalities across the continuum of care. Duties may include, but are not limited to, any of the following: pre- habilitation, acute, sub-acute, transitional, home-based, post rehabilitative, and wellness programs. Administer musculoskeletal, neurological, ergonomic, biomechanical, psychological, and task specific functional tests and measures in order to reach maximum outcomes. Coordinate and collaborate within a multidisciplinary team to provide comprehensive care, employ multiple treatment approaches and to accomplish complex treatment objectives. The kinesiotherapist may perform duties such as, accurately test, analyze, evaluate, and record measurements of vitals, muscular strength, endurance, range of motion, coordination, static/dynamic balance, cardiovascular endurance, gait analysis, posture, gross sensory impairment, functional mobility, activities of daily living, and prosthetic and orthotic gait, care and training. Provide education to patients, caregivers and other health care professionals regarding policies and procedures for guidance to maneuver through the health care system. Kinesiotherapists monitor and report on work status, program quality, performance improvement data, and make recommendations for process improvement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
7. [Kinesiotherapist,] GS-9:

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities:
(a) Knowledge of policies and procedures of kinesiotherapy.
(b) Knowledge of assistive devices to make recommendations, including fit and function of assistive devices [with the ability to recognize appropriate prosthetic/orthotic devices for the patient.
(c) Knowledge of evaluation and assessment tools] in applying therapeutic techniques.
(d) Skill in instructing patients and families in a [therapeutic] exercise program.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. [Kinesiotherapist], GS-[11]:

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities:
(a)[Skill in communicating and coordinating with patients, families, caregivers, and other health care professions to facilitate the multidisciplinary treatment process].
(b)Knowledge [of evidence-based kinesiotherapy to provide skilled rehabilitation interventions to] a wide variety of patients having multiple disabilities.
(c)[Ability to conduct independent assessments using highly specialized evaluations and diagnostic tests.]
(d)Knowledge of [learning principles, behavioral intervention, and innovational] techniques [for patient and caregiver education.
(e)Ability to adapt assessment tools and treatment to the complexity of the diagnosis or disabilities and demonstrate the clinical reasoning necessary to identify the need for further in-depth specific assessment of function and utilization of non-standard methods and techniques.
(f)Ability to use clinical reasoning necessary to identify the need for further in-depth specific assessment and/or continuation of treatment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected