Position Title
Supervisory NBE (Examiner-In-Charge), NB-570-VII.2
Agency
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
Announcement Number
MP.2-HR-25-5448-12797190 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 12, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current OCC employee on a permanent appointment (includes rotational positions) in the Excepted Service or Competitive Service who has not held the band/grade level of the position being advertised?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current OCC employee on a permanent appointment (includes rotational positions) in the Excepted Service or Competitive Service who has held the band/grade level and promotion potential of the position being advertised?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Los Angeles, CA
 B. Boston, MA
 C. Marlton, NJ
 D. New York, NY
 E. San Antonio, TX
2. If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Not Applicable
3. May we contact your current supervisor for a reference?
 A. Yes
 B. No
If you are an annuitant, your salary or annuity may be reduced upon employment.
4. If you are among the best-qualified applicants referred for consideration, you may be required to complete one (or more) job-related structured interviews and assessments. The disclosure of structured interview questions and assessment questions undermines merit-based selection processes.

Applicants are expressly prohibited from disclosing, publishing, reproducing, posting, or transmitting the content of the structured interview questions and assessments in whole or in part, in any form or by any means, oral or written, electronic or mechanical, for any purpose1.
Applicants who are not willing to abide by these conditions will NOT be able to participate in the selection process.
If an applicant is found to have violated this agreement, they will be disqualified.
If an applicant is a current OCC employee or becomes an OCC employee and is found to have violated this agreement, they may be subject to disciplinary action up to and including removal.

I agree to comply with the above statement:
 A. Yes
 B. No
1"These provisions are consistent with and do not supersede, conflict with, or otherwise alter the employee obligations, rights, or liabilities created by existing statute or Executive order relating to (1) classified information, (2) communications to Congress, (3) the reporting to an Inspector General or the Office of Special Counsel of a violation of any law, rule, or regulation, or mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to public health or safety, or (4) any other whistleblower protection. The definitions, requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions, and liabilities created by controlling Executive orders and statutory provisions are incorporated into this agreement and are controlling." This agreement, policy or form (as applicable) does not prohibit or restrict "an employee or applicant for employment from disclosing to Congress, the Special Counsel, the Inspector General of an agency, or any other agency component responsible for internal investigation or review any information that relates to any violation of any law, rule, or regulation, or mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to public health or safety, or any other whistleblower protection." 5 U.S.C. § 2302(b)(13).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


Your answers to the following questions should reflect the qualifications you possess, or expect to possess, within 30 calendar days after the closing date of the announcement. 

Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Are you a current OCC employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the NB-VI level, as described in the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement? Please review the announcement carefully before responding.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I understand that my resume must contain sufficient information to show that I meet the minimum qualification requirements, and that to ensure I receive any credit for relevant work experience, my resume should include the start and end dates for each job held (month and year), number of hours worked per week, and a description of duties performed in each job.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. List the position titles, grade levels (if federal service), dates (month/day/year), and number of hours per week for each position held that meets the one year specialized experience requirement. Please make sure your resume adequately describes your job responsibilities for each position listed.

Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. Are you credentialed or expect to receive your NBE commission within 30 calendar days after the closing date of this announcement to lead exams of national banks?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. In the text box below please specify the date (month/year) that you received or expect to receive your NBE Commission. If you don't expect to receive the commission within 30 days please type not applicable.
7. Select the response(s) that best describe your experience communicating matters related to strategic planning, workforce planning or supervisory strategy activities.  (Select all that apply)
 A. Develop and present strategic planning, workforce planning or supervisory strategy information to management officials and other staff within the organization; conduct staff meetings or meetings on such program areas; and explain program procedures and practices to employees and managers in the organization.
 B. Brief top management on strategic planning, workforce planning or supervisory strategy proposals or programs; defend positions on issues related to such programs; address internal groups or local customers on key strategic, supervisory or workforce planning and organizational development functions and policies; and serve as a spokesperson for a strategic planning or organizational development program area.
 C. Present strategic planning, workforce planning or supervisory strategy information to top management when the point of view expressed is controversial or likely to be met with opposition; conduct presentations to external groups on all-encompassing topics; explain or defend strategic or supervisory planning or organizational development policies and practices to external audiences; and chair internal task forces or special committees.
 D. Serve as organization's strategic planning, workforce planning or supervisory strategy representative or spokesperson in adverse situations or when topic of discussion is not clearly defined; hold employee forums or program conferences and serve as the key speaker; chair strategic or supervisory planning or organizational development related interagency task forces/committees; and serve on strategic workforce or supervisory planning or organizational development panels or at hearings to provide advice on technical or policy matters.
 E. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the only response selected for this item)
8. Choose the response that most accurately reflects your highest level of experience with respect to strategic thinking.
 A. For areas beyond my immediate work unit, I have identified best practices, process improvements, or other quality improvement opportunities and developed written proposals for consideration by senior management.
 B. I have identified best practices, process improvements, or other quality improvement opportunities and developed a multi-step plan for adapting new ideas within my unit.
 C. I have participated in the development of long-term goals and objectives for my unit.
 D. None of the above.
9. Select the response that best describes your experience conducting analysis and reviewing models to develop banking supervisory strategies.
 A. I have experience in performing this task and am considered an expert; I advise and instruct others in carrying out this task on a regular basis; I am consulted by my colleagues and /or superiors to carry out this task in unusually complex situations.
 B. I have experience in performing this task independently across a wide range of situations; I have assisted others in carryout out this task; I seek guidance only in unusually complex situations.
 C. I have experience performing this task in routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 D. I have had exposure to this task but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 E. I do not have experience in performing this task.
10. Which of the following areas have you been designated as a subject matter expert by your line of business (Large Bank Supervision, MidSize, or District) or Field Office: (Select all that apply)
 A. Capital Markets
 B. Commercial Credit
 C. Retail Credit
 D. Operational Risk
 E. Capital-DFAST-Basel II/III
 F. Accounting
 G. Information Technology
 H. Asset Management/Trust
 I. BSA/Anti-Money Laundering
 J. Enterprise Risk Management
 K. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the only response selected for this item)
11. From the following list of complex financial institution risks and activities, select the response(s) that best describe your experience performing detailed risk assessment: (Select all that apply)
 A. Commercial or commercial real estate credit
 B. Retail credit, including mortgage banking
 C. Liquidity and funding
 D. Trading operations
 E. Asset Liability Management
 F. Market Risk, including Value at Risk and specific risk modeling
 G. Captial planning, including economic capital and capital stress testing
 H. Operational risk which includes payment and custody processing
 I. Banking relations, including examiner and supervisory methods
 J. Asset Management/Trust
 K. Compliance/BSA-AML
 L. Information Technology
 M. Enterprise Risk Management
 N. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the only response selected for this item)
12. Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of experience interpreting and applying banking laws, regulations, policies, and procedures to advise field staff? (Select the best answer)
 A. I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and! or superiors to carry this work behavior in unusually complex situations.
 B. I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 C. I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 D. I have limited experience interpreting, applying, and advising field staff on this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 E. I have no experience interpreting, applying, and advising field staff on this work behavior.
13. Select the response(s) that best describe your experience maintaining cooperative relations with other regulatory agencies. (Select all that apply)
 A. Meeting with representatives from other agencies to discuss supervisory issues.
 B. Coordinating examination activities.
 C. Coordinating outreach or training activities.
 D. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the only response selected for this item)
14. Select the response that best describes your experience delivering oral presentations on your analysis of financial and/or regulatory issues to a variety of audiences.
 A. I have held a senior level position in the financial services industry or regulatory environment responsible for communicating the analysis of financial and/or regulatory problems to senior level internal and external constituents.
 B. I have experience communicating the analysis of financial and/or regulatory problems to senior level internal and external constituents.
 C. I have experience communicating the analysis of general financial and/or regulatory problems to senior level internal and external constituents.
 D. None of the above.
15. Select the statements which describe the types of oral presentations you have given. (Select all that apply)
 A. I have orally presented to senior regulatory officials.
 B. I have orally presented to bank executives and directors.
 C. I have orally presented to or conducted outreach with groups of bankers or banking associations.
 D. I have orally presented to or conducted outreach with Congressional staff.
 E. I have orally presented to agency supervisory committees.
 F. I have orally presented to international policy or supervisory committees.
 G. I have orally presented in situations that influence senior audiences to accept a controversial position.
 H. I have orally presented in-depth analyses of emerging issues.
 I. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the only response selected for this item)
16. Which of the following types of information related to the financial services industry have you communicated orally?
 A. Adverse or critical review findings
 B. Favorable consulting, examination, or audit conclusions
 C. Guidance on the application of laws, regulations or rules pertaining to the financial services industry
 D. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the only response selected for this item)
17. Which types of products have you written? (Select all that apply)
 A. Report of Examination assigning all CAMELS, rating of 3, 4, or 5
 B. Enforcement actions such as Civil Money Penalty or 8(e) removal order recommendation memorandum
 C. Standard Operating Procedures or Policy Directives
 D. Quarterly Risk Assessment Summary (RAS) covering all risk areas
 E. Annual Core Assessment covering all risk areas
 F. Quarterly RAS covering one risk area
 G. Annual Core Assessment covering one risk area
 H. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the only response selected for this item)
18. Select the response that best describes your experience summarizing in writing your analysis of financial and/or regulatory issues to a variety of audiences.
 A. I have held a senior level position in the financial services industry or regulatory environment responsible for summarizing the analysis of highly complex financial and/or regulatory issues to senior level internal and external constituents.
 B. I have experience summarizing the analysis of highly complex financial and/or regulatory issues to senior level internal and external constituents.
 C. I have experience summarizing the analysis of general financial and/or regulatory issues to senior level internal and external constituents.
 D. I have no experience summarizing the analysis of general financial and/or regulatory issues to senior level internal and external constituents.
19. Select the following supervisory duties you have performed: (Select all that apply)
 A. Assigned work to team members based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capability of employees
 B. Planned work to be accomplished by subordinate members of work teams
 C. Set and adjusted priorities and prepared schedules for completion of work
 D. Evaluated work performance of subordinates or team members
 E. Interviewed candidates for positions in the unit, recommended appointment, promotion, or reassignment to such positions
 F. Identified development and training needs of employees based on organizational goals
 G. " Provided advice, counsel or instruction to employees on administrative matters"
 H. Effected minor disciplinary measures, such as warnings and reprimands, recommending other action in more serious cases
 I. Scheduled the work coverage of the unit, balancing leave and training absences
 J. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the only response selected for this item)
20. Which of the following best describes your experience with leading and participating in work teams?
 A. I have led a financial institution regulatory work team or group in managing projects or initiatives characterized by more than one controversial issue, high visibility, and a broad scope (i.e., agency-wide or financial institution-wide) of application.
 B. I have led a work team in a large, midsize or community bank dealing with significant issues and visibility and some controversy.
 C. I have participated on a work team or group on high profile or controversial projects.
 D. I have participated on a work team or group on a project of similar interest.
 E. I have not participated on a work team or group on a project of similar interest.
21. I have trained and developed employees in the following ways: (Select all that apply)
 A. I have served as a rating official for bank examiners and non-examiners.
 B. I have served as a reviewing official for bank examiners and/or non-examiners.
 C. I have served rating official for non-examiners.
 D. I have completed in-bank evaluation forms for bank examiners.
 E. I have served as a coach/mentor for bank examiners.
 F. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the only response selected for this item)
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
22. Your ratings in this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify or exaggerate your experience level may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency, if selected. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning; 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy; and 3) have verified that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability as reflected in your resume.

Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and are supported in my resume
No, I do not accept this agreement and I no longer wish to be considered for this position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
By clicking "Next" (below), I acknowledge that OCC ethics standards generally prohibit employees, their spouses, and minor children (as defined by state law) from holding securities, such as stocks and bonds, of banks, savings associations, or their affiliates, such as bank holding companies. If I am selected for and choose to accept this position, I understand that I, my spouse, and minor children will be expected to divest any securities prohibited by OCC ethics standards. 

 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected