Position Title
New Parent Support Home Visitor
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
CC-25-12803293 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 17, 2025 to Monday, September 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0101 - Social Science
 B. 0185 - Social Work
 C. 0610 - Nurse
CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
1. I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you reside within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position? Local address must be clearly listed on resume. 

The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 A. Yes, I reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
 B. No, I do not reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
3. I am willing and able to travel away from my duty location.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. This position requires selectee to satisfactorily complete all background checks in accordance with PL 101-647 to include National Agency Check with Written Inquiries (NACI). If access to Government computer, databases, and/or systems is required in the performance of duties, the incumbent must pass SF- 86/Eligibility for Secret Clearance upon hire and periodically thereafter as a condition of employment. To obtain a Secret Clearance, selectee must be a U.S. Citizen. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Must successfully complete a criminal history background check with no adverse information or feedback received. Child Care National Agency Check and Inquiry (CNACI) background check is required.  FFSC personnel are not permitted to provide services to minor children until this condition is met. 

Do you agree?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the New Parent Support Home Visitor position. Failure to meet the basic requirement(s) and specialized experience or failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
1. Basic Requirements: 0101
Which of the following education and/or experience do you have in order to meet the requirements for this position in the 0101 series? NOTE: Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position, if you are qualifying based on education.
 A. I have a bachelor's degree or higher in behavioral or social science; or related discipline as appropriate to the position, such as Marriage and Family Therapy; Mental Health Counseling; or completion of a degree from a program accredited by the Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Education Programs (CACREP) AND at least 2 years of direct experience in the prevention intervention, or treatment of child abuse or domestic abuse, or the provision of maternal or child health support services.
 B. I have a combination of education and experience that provided knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field, including at least 2 years of direct experience in the prevention intervention, or treatment of child abuse or domestic abuse, or the provision of maternal or child health support services
 C. I have four years of appropriate experience that demonstrates acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field, including at least 2 years of direct experience in the prevention intervention, or treatment of child abuse or domestic abuse, or the provision of maternal or child health support services.
 D. I have none of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. Basic Requirements: 0185
Do you have a master's degree in social work from a school accredited by the Council on Social Work Education AND 2 years of direct experience in the prevention intervention, or treatment of child abuse or domestic abuse, or the provision of maternal or child health support services? NOTE: Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Basic Requirements: 0610
Which of the following education and/or experience do you have in order to meet the requirements for the 0610 series? NOTE: Transcripts and current/valid licensure must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position. Additionally, bachelor's degree in nursing must be from an accredited professional nursing education program. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Education Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained.  Official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required for individuals who graduated from foreign nursing schools.
 A. I have a bachelor's degree in nursing as described above; AND, National Council Licensure Examination; AND, Possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States; AND,  PhD or equivalent doctoral degree from a professional nursing educational program or related medical science field; AND, At least 2 years of direct experience in child abuse or domestic abuse, maternal or child health, community health, or mental health.
 B. I have a bachelor's degree in nursing as described above; AND, National Council Licensure Examination; AND, Possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States; AND, A minimum of three full years of professional nursing experience; AND, At least 2 years of direct experience in child abuse or domestic abuse, maternal or child health, community health, or mental health.
 C. I have none of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. Specialized Experience: 0101/0185 
Do you have a minimum of three years of specialized experience providing positive parenting practices?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected