Position Title
Registered Respiratory Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-12767639-25-DG Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, July 18, 2025 to Monday, July 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Registered Respiratory Therapist position with the Federal government. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. This section addresses the basic qualifications for this vacancy announcement.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Education: Individuals must have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by The Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care (CoARC) (https://coarc.com/students/find-an-accredited-program/) or its successor.

Do you meet the educational requirement as described above? (TRANSCRIPTS MUST BE PROVIDED.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Licensure: Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT.

Are you licensed or certified by a state to practice as a Registered Respiratory Therapist (a copy of your licensure and/or certification must be provided)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Credential: Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a valid, current, unrestricted credential of RRT.

Exception: RT positions will be designated only to individuals who are in the process of obtaining credentials to become an RRT. These individuals will only be hired on a temporary appointment as provided below.
VHA may waive the RRT credential requirement for persons who are otherwise qualified and pending completion of prerequisites for RRT credential. Individuals who have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor, acquired the CRT credential, are fully licensed by their state and are working toward completion of their RRT credential may be given a temporary appointment as an RT. The temporary appointment is made under the authority of 38 U.S.C. ? 7401(a)(1)(B) for a period not to exceed one year from date of employment. Candidates must hold an active, current, full and unrestricted RRT credential and be licensed to hold a position at or above the GS-07 level.
RTs may only be temporarily appointed at the GS-05 level and may not be promoted/converted to a higher-level position as an RRT until the RRT credential is received.
RTs must provide care only under the close supervision of an RRT.
Temporary RT appointments may not be extended beyond one year or converted to a new temporary appointment.
Failure to Obtain Credential: In all cases, RTs must actively pursue meeting national prerequisites for the RRT credential from the first day of their appointment. Failure to become credentialed within one year from date of appointment will result in removal from the GS-0601 RT series and may result in termination of employment.

Do you have credentials to practice as a Registered Respiratory Therapist granted by NBRC or meet the exception (a copy of your credentials must be provided)?
 A. Yes, I currently possess and maintain a valid, current, unrestricted credential of Registered Respiratory Therapy.
 B. No, I do not currently possess and maintain a valid, current, unrestricted credential of Registered Respiratory Therapy. However, I meet the exceptions as described above.
 C. No, I do not currently possess and maintain a valid, current, unrestricted credential of Registered Respiratory Therapy, nor do I intend to obtain the required credentials.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. English Language Proficiency: Registered Respiratory Therapists appointed to direct patient-care positions must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7403(f).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Registered Respiratory Therapist, GS-07:
Experience, Education, Licensure and Registration. In addition to the basic requirements, candidates must possess their RRT credential.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the requirements above, candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
Ability to perform therapeutic modalities related to respiratory care.
Skill in analyzing physiological specimens obtained to include arterial blood gases, pulse oximetry, End tidal Co2 (ETCo2) monitoring, basic spirometry and other basic diagnostic procedures.
Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals for respiratory care to help provide favorable patient outcomes.
Skill in assessing oxygenation and ventilation.
Ability to perform basic airway management to include artificial airways and mechanical ventilation.

Do you meet the grade requirements as listed above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Registered Respiratory Therapist, GS-09:
Experience or Education, Licensure and Credential: Candidates must have:
One year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level; OR
A Master of Science degree in respiratory care AND a license AND an RRT credential.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities: In addition to the requirements above, candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
Skill in performing therapeutic modalities related to respiratory care.
Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals to help provide favorable patient outcomes.
Skill in assessing oxygenation and ventilation.
Ability to perform airway management to include artificial airways and mechanical ventilation.

Do you meet the grade requirements as listed above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Registered Respiratory Therapist, GS-11:
Experience, Licensure and Credential. Candidates must have:
One year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level.
Hold an active license and RRT credential.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities: In addition to the requirements above, candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals for complex respiratory care to develop care plans to provide favorable patient outcomes.
Skill in evaluating the efficacies of therapeutic modalities.
Skill in performing advanced airway and ventilation management.

Do you meet the grade requirements as described above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Certification: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
RESUME REMINDER: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title
Duties (Be as detailed as possible.)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g., June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held

Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

TRANSCRIPT REMINDER: Transcript(s) must be submitted if education is used to meet any requirement. Conferral of degrees earned should be present on transcript(s). Unofficial transcript(s) are acceptable.

LICENSURE/CERTIFICATION REMINDER: You must submit a copy of your license/credential listed with your application.

SF-50 REMINDER: If you are a current or former Federal employee, you must provide a copy of our last or most recent SF-50, "Notice of Personnel Action." The SF-50 must identify your position, title, series, grade, step, tenure, and type of service (Competitive or Excepted). f you have previously held a higher grade and are applying based on a particular grade, you must provide a copy of the SF-50 showing you held the higher grade IN ADDITION to your last or most recent SF-50 indicating proof of status.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected