Position Title
Supervisory Training Specialist
Agency
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
Announcement Number
MP-12797982-25-PQ Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 12, 2025 to Thursday, September 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. Your answers will be used to determine your eligibility to apply to this job opportunity announcement. You will be considered under the eligibility option(s) to which you answer YES. Select YES to all eligibility options for which you want to be considered. If you respond NO to meeting the criteria for all the eligibilities, you will not be considered for the position(s) under this announcement.

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration for EACH selected eligibility. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration.
1.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current or former permanent Farm Service Agency County employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current USDA employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a USDA employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment AND you have held or currently hold a position on a permanent basis in the competitive service with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a retiree receiving a civilian Federal or FSA County Annuity?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Have you ever received a voluntary separation incentive payment (VSIP or buyout) to leave the Federal civilian service or FSA County position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former: Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a federal employee receiving a recruitment, relocation, retention and/or other incentive payment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Once a selection is made for this position, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with other hiring managers in the agency who have similar vacancies. Please opt in below if you're willing to have your name, application material, and assessment results shared to be considered for additional, similar positions. There is no guarantee for further consideration.
 A. Opt-in: Please share my name, application material, and assessment results with additional hiring managers within the agency for similar positions.
 B. Opt-out: I only want to be considered for positions associated with this specific application.
Core Questions
1. Has your work schedule been full-time, i.e., 35-40 hours per week, for every position listed on your resume or OF-612?

If yes, please type Yes.
If no, please type No and include the following in your response for all positions held: position title, employer, dates employed (MM/DD/YY), work schedule (i.e., Full-Time (FT), Part-Time (PT), etc.), and hours/week. Please list in order with current/most recent position first.
Failure to provide all requested information may prevent us from giving credit for experience.
2. I understand for information on the status of my application and the outcome of the application process, I (the applicant) must inquire through USAJOBS. No separate notification will be sent to me. To view the status of my application and the outcome of the application process, I must go to the USAJOBS website and log into My Account. Once in My Account, I must enter the "Application Status" section of the website.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD 214, 50B, performance appraisal may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I understand that any correspondence necessary will be conducted via e-mail and sent to the e-mail address I provided in this application process. I must keep this e-mail address current.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I understand that if I am a current or former federal employee, I must submit an SF-50 showing my career/career-conditional status AND a performance appraisal dated within 18 months or as statement detailing the reason for not submitting the appraisal as part of the application package.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. If you are, or ever were, a federal civilian employee in a permanent position in the competitive service, what is the highest grade level you held, excluding temporary promotions? (Please include the pay plan, e.g. GS-7, WG-10, or NA for not applicable). (limit 250 characters)
7. If you are, or ever were, a federal civilian employee, please indicate the start date and end dates of the highest graded permanent positions you held, excluding temporary promotions (e.g. MM/YYYY to MM/YYYY, MM/YYYY to present, or NA for not applicable). (limit 250 characters)
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. GS-14- Choose one answer that best describes your experience.
 A. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
2. Performing training support and administration.
 A. Produced training and/or meeting webinars
 B. Recommended improvement in job aids, survey items, tests, and other instructional materials to ensure maximum clarity and overall quality
 C. Researched and compiled statistics and informational data for training reports
 D. Delivered short courses in basic subject areas to training participants
 E. Summarized data collected from various evaluation instruments to formulate recommendations for improving training
 F. Assisted in the administration of course evaluations and assessments
 G. Scheduled meetings, including online meetings, using Outlook
 H. Used authoring tools (e.g. Captivate, Articulate, Camtasia, MS Movie Maker, etc.) to provide training technology support
 I. None of the above
3. Interpersonal communication skills.
 A. Facilitate the resolution of competing or conflicting interests among co-workers whose cooperation is essential to the success of a project.
 B. Negotiate with and influence others in order to gain their commitment to pursue new initiatives or technologies.
 C. Interact and perform effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables or work assignments.
 D. Provide direction, guidance or instruction to members of inter-disciplinary teams charged with carrying out a technical project.
 E. Administer consequences, hold others accountable and enforce program policies and standards in the workplace
 F. Utilize skills in diplomacy and liaison to resolve controversy or resolve problems
 G. Work closely with managers to resolve problems, analyze alternatives, negotiate differences, or develop improvements
 H. Explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations
 I. None of the above
4. In performing training I have communicated with the following individuals and groups:
 A. Other training and related specialists within my agency/organization
 B. Other training and related specialists outside of my agency/organization
 C. Subject-matter experts
 D. Agency/organization officials, administrators, and/or managers
 E. Project/team members
 F. Agency/organization supervisors
 G. External groups and organizations
 H. Government representatives and/or officials
 I. Training course participants/students
 J. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. Have you developed fiscal year operational plans in conjunction with balanced performance measures against which progress is monitored, controlled, and accounted for?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Which of the following activities have you carried out independently in leadership positions you have held?
 A. Sought input of employees through their representative associations or union officials to address matters that affect them in the workplace
 B. Partnered with union officials and employee/labor relations staff to deal with workplace issues and to prevent employees’ grievances or to ameliorate escalation
 C. Recognized potential for violence and sabotage in the workplace and took preventive action, e.g., worked with Employee Assistance Program to address problems with troubled employees
 D. Took preventive action to assure on-the-job safety and security of employees
 E. Ensured that employees were aware of available assistance programs for mental health or substance abuse issues, e.g., Employee Assistance Program
 F. Held staff accountable for avoiding and resolving conflicts prior to involving first level supervisor
 G. None of the above
7. Which of the following actions have you taken to enhance the development of employees?
 A. Made resources available to address high priority training or development activities required to implement new technical processes or automated systems
 B. Planned for, budgeted, and implemented skills assessment and management developmental activities, programs, and assignments for employees
 C. Engineered cross functional work assignments to enhance the exposure of employees to other components of the organization or other technical disciplines.
 D. Provided resources and training to employees pertaining to their responsibilities and opportunities to develop non-supervisory staff
 E. None of the above
8. I have carried out the following tasks on behalf of a group of subordinate employees:
 A. Developed employee performance standards
 B. Provided input on or conducted performance appraisals
 C. Enforced workplace standards
 D. Resolved complaints and/or grievances informally
 E. Formally recognized employees for exceptional work
 F. Identified training needs and scheduled the appropriate training to address them
 G. Recommended disciplinary actions
 H. Participated in hiring/promotion decisions
 I. Assured fair administration of Equal Employment Opportunity statutes and principles
 J. None of the above
9. I have been responsible for making sound, timely decisions for a project, team or work unit about:
 A. Technical approach
 B. Technical methods
 C. Work processes
 D. Staff requirements
 E. Equipment requirements
 F. Facilities
 G. Funds
 H. None of the above
10. In which of the following do you have experience pertaining to the delivery of services to customers within or outside your organization?
 A. Responding to requests for assistance or services from staff members outside your immediate work unit
 B. Using a tracking system to record services requested and delivered to customers
 C. Using a formal tracking system to record and report customer complaints
 D. Using a formal tracking system to record errors or deficiencies in products or services delivered to customers
 E. Following a formal process to solicit and record customer feedback on services delivered
 F. Establishing mechanisms for ongoing customer feedback
 G. Implementing processes and procedures to ensure customer satisfaction with services delivered
 H. Dealing with customers to define product or service requirements or specifications, and to reach agreement on terms of delivery e.g., prices, timeliness, quality or similar conditions
 I. None of the above
11. I have direct experience and am proficient at writing with clarity, succinctness, persuasiveness, and facility for the intended audience when developing:
 A. Policies
 B. Issue Papers
 C. Program plans
 D. Correspondence dealing with difficult issues
 E. None of the above
12. I have experience representing (presenting, explaining, defending, selling, and/or negotiating) the organization and its work to:
 A. Professional groups
 B. Stakeholder groups (e.g., other agencies with related missions, overseers, special interests, external customers)
 C. Senior-level management
 D. Middle management
 E. First line supervisors
 F. Program experts
 G. General public
 H. Unions
 I. None of the above
13. I have successfully used my persuasion and negotiating skills to obtain the decision I wanted or support I needed from:
 A. Colleagues at work in other offices
 B. My supervisor
 C. Managers in my chain of command
 D. Managers in other government organizations
 E. Contractors or contractor employees
 F. Other third party groups (e.g., other agencies with related missions, unions, overseers, special interests, external customers)
 G. Political appointees below the department level
 H. Political appointees at or above agency head level
 I. People I work with in non-work related situations (community leaders, citizens, volunteers)
 J. None of the above
14. From the following list of service improvement processes please identify those in which you have been an active participant:
 A. Collects information and feedback from customers and uses that information to imrpove products or services delivered to the public
 B. Engages employees and customers/stakeholders in efforts to develop and maintain standards; improve services, products, and processes
 C. Works across organization lines involving employees from other units, work groups, or jurisdictions, and customers to initiate projects to improve programs services and organizational performance
 D. None of the above
15. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 A. Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 B. No, I do not certify and I understand that by responding “no” to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected