Position Title
MEDICAL RECORDS TECH (CODER) A
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-12827138-26-HR Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 29, 2025 to Wednesday, November 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Please ensure that you read all information and select the response that best meets your status/level of applicability.


1.
This vacancy is only open to current permanent employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs nationwide.

 Yes, I am a current permanent Federal employee of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
 No, I am not a current permanent Federal employee of the Department of Veterans Affairs.


Candidates must be United States citizens to be considered for this position.


2.
Are you a United State citizen?

 Yes
 No


3.
Experience satisfying this requirement must be active practice, which is paid/non-paid employment as a MRT (Coder/Auditor).

 GS-09 is considered Above the full Performance Level - One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-08) of the Medical Records Technician (Coder) position to be filled? Auditors serve as experts of current coding conventions and regulations related to professional and facility coding. Auditors perform audits of encounters to identify areas of non-compliance in coding. Provide recommendations on appropriate coding and are responsible for maintaining current knowledge of the various regulatory guidelines and requirements. Auditors work with staff to ensure that regulations are met, or areas of weakness are identified and reported to appropriate supervisor for corrective action. Perform prospective coding audits and utilize results to identify processing inadequacies and re-educate coding staff where necessary. Coordinate retrospective reviews to ensure adequate auditing of coding activities. Act independently to plan, organize, direct and control areas with emphasis on data validation, analysis and generation of reports associated with the Medical Center's health information management program. This includes managing the professional health information management functions such as retrieving, reviewing and abstracting health record information. Determine quality control measures needed; initiate and implement them by use of monitors and/or continuous review.
 I do not meet the specialized experience.


In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), no person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. As per VA Handbook 5005 chapter 2 section D, paragraph 5a; Medical Records Technicians must be proficient in basic written and spoken English to perform the duties of this position in.


4.
Are you proficient in the English language?

 Yes
 No


Applicants must undergo a pre-employment examination and be medically suitable to perform the essential duties of Medical Records Technician efficiently and without hazard to themselves and others.


5.
Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment medical examination?

 Yes
 No


The following is a Certification of Understanding. RESPONSE TO THIS STATEMENT IS MANDATORY. Please note, if you do not answer this question, it will result in not being considered for this position.


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided above.


Resume Reminder - Your resume (and/or OF-612) must include the following information for each job listed: * Job title; * Duties (be as detailed as possible); * Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) * Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) *Salary ALL applicants must submit a 10-2850C (link to form on announcement) through upload or fax by the closing date of the announcement. ALL DOCUMENTS MUST CONTAIN CURRENT IFORMATION AND SIGNED WITH A CURRENT DATE, OTHERWISE APPLICATIONS WILL BE CONSIDERED AS INCOMPLETE.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙