Position Title
Immigration Services Assistant (Office Automation)
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12802159-CLM-DE-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 18, 2025 to Monday, September 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current DHS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

Do you wish to be considered under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) because you are a current or former Federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.704

For more information about ICTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. The Reemployment Priority List (RPL) is the mechanism DHS uses to give reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees separated by reduction-in-force (RIF), or fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a former DHS employee?  If so, have you met all of the following criteria?
Registered for the RPL program, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupied a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current/most recent performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent, and
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606.
For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, visit 5 CFR 330 Subpart B.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
My SF-50 showing Separation - RIF. If that is not available yet, then official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
5
6
7
8
9
2. I acknowledge the following conditions if I choose to submit my resume through the USAJOBS Resume Builder:
I understand that resumes submitted through USAJOBS Resume Builder are converted to a PDF format when they are transmitted to USA Staffing from the USAJOBS applicant interface and additional spaces/page gaps are added to resumes during the Resume Builder conversion process;
Based on the above conditions, I understand that USCIS strongly encourages me to save my resume to a PDF document and upload the PDF document instead of submitting my resume created through Resume Builder;
I understand that USCIS' human resources will only review the first 2 pages of my resume to determine eligibility/qualifications for this position;
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I have met this requirement for consideration.

(Note: Additional guidance regarding this requirement is available within the How to Submit Your Resume section of the USCIS Resume Requirement FAQs.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 D. No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.
4. Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) from the Federal Government within the last 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I acknowledge that this position is NOT remote and that if selected, I will be expected to report to the duty station listed within the announcement text.
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I understand this requirement.
By answering NO to this question, I am asking to be removed from further consideration for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. GS-05 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience and/or education?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-04 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I have successfully completed four (4) full years of education above the high school level.
 C. I possess a combination of post-high school education and specialized experience.
 D. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.
2. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
3. GS-06 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
4. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
5. GS-07 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-06 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
6. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
7. GS-08 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
8. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
9. GS-09 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience in this one-graded interval position?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-08 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
10. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
11. Typing Certification: Can you type at least 40 words per minute? You can self-certify by submitting a statement that you can type this speed.
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. General Office Skills: Do you possess knowledge of general office automation software, practices, and procedures?
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Physical Demands: Applicants must be able to lift up to 50 pounds. Are you able to lift moderately heavy items such as file tubs and record boxes or bins weighing up to 50 lbs.
 A. Yes
 B. No
The following section contains a multitude of question types. If you see a radio button, you can only select one response. If you see a checkbox, you may select all that apply.
14. Which statement best describes your reaction when work processes frequently change?
 A. I quickly adapt when work processes frequently change and assist others.
 B. I don’t like it when work processes frequently change but I will adapt accordingly.
 C. I don't mind when my work processes frequently change and I remain positive.
 D. I struggle with regaining my momentum when work processes frequently change and have difficulty adapting to the change.
15. Select the ways in which you demonstrate being open and courteous to opinions from people with varied backgrounds.
 A. I take the time to listen to different opinions.
 B. I respect others opinions even if I disagree.
 C. I ask follow up questions to help me further understand others opinions.
 D. I can participate in courteous debate.
 E. I always know that my opinion is the correct opinion.
 F. None of the above
16. Select the ways in which you develop and maintain collaborative working relationships with others to resolve conflicts in a positive manner.
 A. Find commonality to all sides as a starting point for shared outcome.
 B. Actively listen and brainstorm together.
 C. Be respectful to differing opinions.
 D. Recognize the barriers to the common goal.
 E. Identify solutions all sides can agree to.
 F. None of the above.
17. Which statement best describes your ability to adapt to changing work assignments?
 A. I perform my best having consistent work assignments
 B. I perform my best having a variety of work assignments.
 C. I perform my best having mostly consistent work assignments and some variety.
 D. I find it hard to remain focused when doing the same assignment over and over.
18. Which administrative/clerical activities have you performed related to project/program management?
 A. I assisted with the implementation of special projects.
 B. I set up controls and records to assist in presenting statistical information on special programs.
 C. I advised superiors on correspondence management.
 D. I finalized official correspondence to ensure accuracy of content, spelling, format, and grammar.
 E. I monitored the progress of special projects/programs and informed key staff of potential impediments.
 F. None of the above.
19. Select the steps you have taken to resolve conflict in the workplace.
 A. Clarify what the disagreement is about.
 B. Find a commonality to all sides as a starting point for a shared outcome.
 C. Actively listen and brainstorm together.
 D. Recognize the barriers to the common goal.
 E. Identify solutions all sides can agree to.
 F. None of the above
20. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience creating correspondence (e.g., customer notifications, response to inquiries)?
 A. I created correspondence following guidance (e.g., template, explicit directions from a superior).
 B. I created correspondence without guidance that was reviewed and approved before dissemination.
 C. I independently created correspondence that did not require higher-level review or approval.
 D. I trained others in proper creation of correspondence.
 E. I completed education and/or training related to creating correspondence, but do not have professional experience.
 F. I have no experience, training, or education creating correspondence.
21. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience drafting documents, such as memorandums and letters, for signature?
 A. I completed education and/or training related to drafting documents but do not have professional experience.
 B. I created templates used by others to draft these documents.
 C. I followed internal guidance and standards to draft these documents.
 D. I recommended improvements to the document creation process that were implemented in my organization.
 E. None of the above.
22. Which administrative/clerical activities have you performed to support a program?
 A. I provided customer support for the program.
 B. I conducted courier services.
 C. I processed documents and fees.
 D. I managed data in information systems or databases.
 E. I prescreened applications for accuracy and completeness.
 F. I initiated security checks/background checks.
 G. I conducted file searches to check for instances of fraud or suspected fraud.
 H. I created physical and electronic case files
 I. I performed case file audits.
 J. None of the above.
23. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience related to using Microsoft Excel?
 A. I applied basic sorting filters to previously created, reoccurring reports.
 B. I applied conditional formatting to previously created, reoccurring reports.
 C. I applied advanced formulas (e.g. IF and VLOOKUP) to previously created, reoccurring reports.
 D. I created custom pivot tables and applied them to recurring reports.
 E. I wrote Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) code macros for recurring reports that are used by others.
 F. None of the above.
24. Which types of software have you independently used to organize information?
 A. Word Processing (e.g., Microsoft Word)
 B. Email (e.g., Outlook)
 C. Spreadsheets (e.g., Excel)
 D. Databases (e.g., Access)
 E. Graphics/Presentation Tools (e.g., Power Point)
 F. Project Management Tools (e.g., Microsoft Project)
 G. Collaboration Tools (e.g., SharePoint, Google Docs)
 H. None of the above
25. Select the statements you have performed relative to proactively facilitating case completion.
 A. I requested records and documents maintained by Federal, states, or local offices, or foreign countries.
 B. I analyzed files to ensure they contained all the required documentation for completion.
 C. I reviewed databases to ensure all files were logged and accounted for.
 D. I printed reports for files with missing items to make it easier to review and track completion.
 E. None of the above.
26. Select the tasks you have performed to maintain information in record tracking systems.
 A. I analyzed various systems and databases to ensure the information was accurate.
 B. I updated records within electronic systems and databases.
 C. I provided feedback to system developers and system personnel to improve efficiency of record management.
 D. I implemented protocols to accurately maintain a record tracking system.
 E. None of the above.
27. Select the activities you have performed to ensure the data integrity of electronic systems.
 A. Reviewed electronic forms (i.e., Immigration Benefits, Personnel Requests) for completeness
 B. Verified accuracy of data entered
 C. Updated databases with new/revised information (i.e., templates, additional steps in current process)
 D. Created queries to facilitate data review
 E. Conducted database searches to identify potential issues
 F. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
28. Do you have experience utilizing secure document management systems and databases?
 A. Yes
 B. No
29. Which actions have you taken to perform security checks using government systems?
 A. Conducted file searches for aliases
 B. Conducted file searches for dates of birth
 C. Conducted file searches for criminal behavior
 D. Conducted file searches for fraud or suspected fraud
 E. Conducted file searches for misrepresentation of identity
 F. Reported submissions of fraudulent or altered documents
 G. Identified files with national security threats and public safety issues
 H. Ensured records and property were maintained and destroyed in accordance with security requirements.
 I. None of the above.
30. Select the actions you have performed to maintain a record tracking system.
 A. Entered data from orders into record tracking databases (e.g., denials, revocations)
 B. Generated database queries or reports to respond to inquiries
 C. Completed file audits and took corrective action
 D. None of the above.
31. Which administrative/clerical activities have you performed?
 A. I performed complex office automation duties (e.g., MailMerge) using word processing to edit and reformat lengthy documents.
 B. I evaluated and implemented management services that improved office operations.
 C. I advised management on decisions that impacted the operation of the office.
 D. I performed data entry to support office tracking.
 E. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
32. Do you have experience extracting relevant information from larger data sets to respond to requests for information?
 A. Yes
 B. No
33. Do you have experience responding to email inquiries that required explaining procedures?
 A. Yes
 B. No
34. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience managing data in spreadsheets and databases?
 A. I searched for information in existing databases and spreadsheets using sorts, filters, and/or queries.
 B. I manipulated data in spreadsheets/databases by creating formulas and graphs.
 C. I created spreadsheets/databases to organize data and performed data entry.
 D. I am certified in Microsoft Office (or comparable) programs for spreadsheets and/or databases.
 E. None of the above.
35. Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience conducting case triage.
 A. I identified missing items in case files to ascertain the status.
 B. I reviewed applications and supporting evidence to determine if the case was filed timely.
 C. I assessed whether a case was ready for adjudication.
 D. I entered case status information into databases for tracking and assigning purposes.
 E. I have no experience, training, or education related to conducting case triage.
 F. I completed education and/or training related to case triage, but do not have professional experience.
36. Select the activities you have performed to ensure the integrity of case files.
 A. I maintained a file organization processes to ensure that files were accounted for on a daily basis.
 B. I managed a tracking database containing a process for checking-out and checking-in files.
 C. I identified missing files through conducting inventory and reconstructed the file to ensure all contents were restored.
 D. I located missing files and put them back where they belonged.
 E. I created temporary folders while organizing or consolidating files.
 F. None of the above.
37. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience conducting on-the-job training?
 A. I completed education and/or training related to conducting on-the-job training but do not have professional experience.
 B. I volunteered to conduct training to newly appointed co-workers and supervisors on changes in job-related functions.
 C. I was appointed as an additional duty trainer when new policies procedures and job-related changes occurred.
 D. I served as a trainer/facilitator for on-the-job training and policy implementation training requirements as a core component of my job-related functions
 E. I developed training resources to implement a training program within my organization.
 F. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
38. Have you resolved data discrepancies by analyzing information in case files and databases?
 A. Yes
 B. No
39. Have you analyzed the impact of immigration-related policies and practices on future workload?
 A. Yes
 B. No
40. Select the activities you have performed to ensure the data integrity of electronic systems.
 A. I reviewed immigration benefit applications and petitions for completeness.
 B. I verified the accuracy of data entered.
 C. I updated databases with new/revised immigration benefit information.
 D. I created queries to facilitate data review.
 E. I conducted database searches to identify potential issues (e.g., fraud).
 F. None of the above
41. Select the tasks you have performed using computer systems to verify an individual's current identity and immigration status.
 A. Conducted file searches for aliases
 B. Conducted file searches for dates of birth
 C. Conducted file searches for adjudicated/pending applications
 D. Searched system for aliases and date of birth variations
 E. Searched system for previous immigration applications
 F. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
42. Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected