Position Title
Human Resources Specialist
Agency
Air Education and Training Command
Announcement Number
U-25-DHA-12766968-JLE Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 16, 2025 to Wednesday, July 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager. We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. CTAP - Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. ICTAP - Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 A. Yes
 B. No
All applicants must complete the following section. This section will be used to determine your ability and willingness to accept certain conditions of employment or meet certain requirements of the position. Please respond 'Yes' or 'No' to the following statements. Failure to respond to this section will result in an ineligible rating.
Preferences
1. I am a current permanent or former federal employee with less than 52 weeks break in the competitive service and I am applying for this position to be considered as a:
 A. Promotion Candidate - I am eligible for promotion consideration since I have held the next lower grade for at least 52 weeks on a permanent basis in the competitive service or I am a current FWS employee. NOTE: You must submit a copy of SF-50(s) that demonstrate you meet the one year time-in-grade requirement if applicable (i.e., Promotion, Within Grade/Rate Increase).
 B. Repromotion Candidate - I am eligible for non-competitive repromotion consideration since I have held a higher grade on a permanent basis in the competitive federal service or a permanent position with the same or higher promotion potential as this position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis.
 C. Non-competitive Reassignment Candidate - I am eligible for non-competitive reassignment consideration since I currently hold a permanent competitive service position in the federal government with equal or higher promotion potential as this position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis held on a permanent basis.
 D. Non-competitive Voluntary Change to Lower Grade (CLG) Candidate - I am eligible and requesting consideration for a Voluntary CLG since I have held, or currently hold a permanent competitive service position at a higher grade in the federal service. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your current permanent position.
 E. I am not eligible for any of the above considerations.
2. I am a current or prior military member of the Armed Forces that is retiring or has been retired less than 180 days. Hiring (appointments or transfers) of retiring or retired members of the Armed Forces to positions in any DoD Component during the 180 days immediately following retirement may only be made IAW DoDI 1402.01 and may require a waiver for appointment prior to the 180 days from official military retirement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you retired from the Federal civilian service or are you in a phased retirement and receiving an annuity?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Current or Former Political Appointees: The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently employed, or have been employed within the last 5 years, in any one of the categories below, you must disclose this information. Failure to disclose this information could result in disciplinary action including removal from Federal Service.

Are you a current or former political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316?
-OR-
Are you a current or former Schedule A or Schedule C political appointee, or an appointee who serves/served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch?
-OR-
Are you a current or former political appointee or non-career SES Executive Branch employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Did you voluntarily separate from federal service and receive Voluntary Separation Incentive Pay (VSIP)?

NOTE: If your response is yes, you must provide a copy of your SF 50 or Leave and Earnings statement showing receipt of payment as part of your application submission. If you become reemployed by the federal government within 5 years of separating from federal service and have received a VSIP, you will be required to repay the full VSIP amount paid to you.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a military spouse who is currently married to an active duty military member?

NOTE: This item is for demographic reporting only. It does not confer eligibility or preference. If you want to apply as a military spouse, you must select from the eligibility options above. Military spouse and military spouse preference may not be available for all positions.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. If you are a military spouse who is currently married to an active duty military member, did you relocate with the military member to their current duty station?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Not applicable. I am not a military spouse.
8. Are you currently working or previously worked in a Department of Defense position in a foreign location(s)?
 A. I have worked or been working in a foreign location(s) for five (5) years or more
 B. I have worked or been working in a foreign location(s) for less than five (5) years
 C. I have not worked in a foreign location
9. 24-Month US Physical Presence: Have you had a continuous physical presence in the United States or a non-foreign area (e.g., Guam, HI, AK) for the past 24-months?
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. If you are currently employed in a permanent General Schedule (GS) position in the competitive service or held a GS position within the previous 52 weeks, please identify your current grade held in a permanent position with inclusive dates, (e.g. 03 Jan 2015 to present). If your current grade is not your highest grade held, please provide both your current grade (with inclusive dates) and your highest grade held grade with inclusive dates, (e.g. 01 Jan 2014 to 02 Jan 2015). If you have not held a GS position in the last 52 weeks, you may skip this question. (Note: Your SF-50's should support the highest grade held).
Assessment 1
From the descriptions below, select the letter that describes the education or experience you have that demonstrates your ability to perform GS-7, Human Resources Specialist work.
1. If your highest level of education is not described below, choose the letter that describes experience or lower level education that you do have. Mark only 1 response.
 A. I have completed all requirements for an associate, bachelor, master, professional, or doctorate degree from a qualifying public or non-profit educational institution within the previous two years; OR
 B. I completed a period of obligated uniformed service of more than four years, and was awarded a degree from a qualifying public or non-profit educational institution within the previous four years.
 C. My educational requirements/eligibility are not reflected in any of the above statements.
In addition to meeting the minimum entry qualification requirements, applicants must demonstrate specialized experience and/or directly related education
2. This section asks you to describe your educational background, your work, and other experiences in specific factors which relate to job performance. Mark only one response.
 A. I have one full year (18 semester hours or equivalent) of graduate level study, or possess a master's or higher degree, e.g., LL.B, J.D., LL.M., Ph.D., in a field that provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work. Such fields include, but not limited to, personnel management, industrial relations, political science, psychology, labor relations, education, business administration and public administration. (SUBMIT COPY OF TRANSCRIPT)
 B. I have Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) at the undergraduate level in one of the following: a) Class standing-upper third of the graduating class based on completed courses in the college, university, or major subdivision; b) Grade Point Average 2.95 or higher out of a possible 4.0 as recorded on your official transcript or as computed based on 4 years of education or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of curriculum; OR 3.45 or higher out of a possible 4.0 based on the average of the required courses completed in your major field or the required courses in your major field completed during the final 2 years of your curriculum. c) Election to membership in a national scholastic honor society (note: freshman honor society cannot be used to meet the requirements of this position). (Submit a copy of your transcript. Degree Audits are not acceptable. If qualifying based on class standing or honor society membership, provide appropriate documentation).
 C. I have one year (12 months) specialized work experience in providing support for Human Resources (HR) specialists involved in using HR information systems; in delivering HR services to military personnel; and in classification, recruitment and placement, employee benefits, human resource development, performance management, and employee and labor management relations. Process and document HR actions for a wide variety of employee categories that involve different forms, different authorities, different action codes, and different regulatory authorities, or additional pay systems. Obtain missing data from HR files or the appropriate office; assist employees in preparing paperwork related to HR actions; review finished forms for completeness and adequacy; contact individual employees or supervisors by telephone to resolve questions before processing final actions; provide information on HR systems, processes and procedures; and/or provide brochures, applications and other HR documents to employees. This experience MUST be equivalent to at least the GS-05 level in Federal service, which could have been obtained in the private or public sectors.
 D. I have less than the full amount of graduate education described in "A" and less than the amount of experience described in "C," but I have a combination of the type of education described in "A" and the type of experience described in "C." To compute, first determine your graduate education as a percentage of the education required in "A"; then determine your total qualifying experience as a percentage of the experience required in "C". Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal to at least 100%. (SUBMIT COPY OF TRANSCRIPT)
 E. My education and/or experience are not reflected in any of the above statements.
The following section is used to determine category rating based on your education, Grade Point Average (GPA) and/or experience.
3. Please ONLY select the appropriate category based on your education and/or experience.
 A. Best Qualified: Master's or a Bachelor's degree with overall GPA of 3.5 or higher
 B. Highly Qualified: Bachelor's degree with overall GPA between 2.95 - 3.49
 C. Qualified: Associate's degree AND one year (12 months) specialized work experience in providing support for Human Resources (HR) specialists involved in using HR information systems; in delivering HR services to military personnel; and in classification, recruitment and placement, employee benefits, human resource development, performance management, and employee and labor management relations. Process and document HR actions for a wide variety of employee categories that involve different forms, different authorities, different action codes, and different regulatory authorities, or additional pay systems. Obtain missing data from HR files or the appropriate office; assist employees in preparing paperwork related to HR actions; review finished forms for completeness and adequacy; contact individual employees or supervisors by telephone to resolve questions before processing final actions; provide information on HR systems, processes and procedures; and/or provide brochures, applications and other HR documents to employees. This experience MUST be equivalent to at least the GS-05 level in Federal service, which could have been obtained in the private or public sectors.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001): my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
4. Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected