Position Title
Supervisory Health System Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSV-12814876-26-AC Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, October 20, 2025 to Thursday, October 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Supervisory Health System Specialist position with the Puget Sound VA Health Care System.


Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR): An IOR is a basic requirement that must be met in order to qualify for the 0671 occupational series: All applicants, regardless of grade level must meet minimum education or specialized experience requirements. For this occupation, the education must be accredited by an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained.


1.
Do you meet the Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR) for this position? Please select the response below which most accurately describes you.
 Education: I possess a bachelor's or graduate/higher level degree with a major in hospital administration, public health administration, or related fields such as business or public administration with course work in health care administration. (Transcripts Required)
 Specialized Experience: I possess progressively responsible analytical or administrative, or clinical management or supervisory experience in the health care field. This work may have been performed in an operating health care facility or a higher organizational echelon with advisory or directional authority over such facilities. Work must have involved a close working relationship with facility managers and analysis and/or coordination of administrative, clinical, or other service activities, and provided knowledge of the following: Missions, organizations, programs, and requirements of health care delivery systems; Regulations and standards of various regulatory and credentialing groups; and Government-wide, agency, and facility systems and requirements in various administrative areas such as budget, personnel, and procurement.
 Special Provision for Inservice Placement: I have successfully completed an agency-sponsored on-the-job training program which included a formal individualized training plan. Such a training program must have been conducted in an operating health care system and included: Assignments providing a knowledge of basic health system administration philosophies, practices, and procedures, and basic government administrative policies and requirements; Practical assignments providing an opportunity to apply health system administration skills and principles (as the individual progresses, work assignments must be characteristic of the grade level to which he or she is assigned); and Oversight by an experienced health system administrator with periodic evaluation of the individual's progress and appropriate adjustment of the training program. (Training Documentation Required)
 I do not meet the minimum requirement for this occupation.



TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENT: Applicants who are current or former Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements. (If you have not held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks this question does not apply to you.) The grade may have been in any occupation, but must have been held in the Federal service. An SF-50 that shows your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade.

 

For this GS-13 position you must have served 52 weeks at GS-12.



2.
Do you meet the time-in-grade requirement for the GS-13 grade level?
 I have at least one-year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-12 grade level. (You must submit an SF-50 showing you meet this requirement)
 I am currently a GS-13 or have held a higher grade. (You must submit an SF-50 showing you meet this requirement)
 This restriction does not apply to me. (for example, are a current Federal Employee in a different pay system, i.e. Wage Grade)
 This restriction applies to me, but I do not meet the requirements.


To qualify applicants must have one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level; knowledge, skills, and abilities that equipped the applicant with the particular competencies needed to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. (Note) Please ensure your resume detail the specialized experience needed for full consideration.


3.
Required Specialized Experience: Please indicate if you meet the specialized experience that you possess which demonstrates your ability to perform the duties for the GS-13 grade level.
 I possess 1-year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level. Specialized experience will include: ability to objectively analyze strategic plans, policies and actions related to healthcare, quality, safety, and operations for nursing and patient care delivery; ability to develop and utilize concepts of economics, cost benefit analysis and business models; ability to estimate program requirements and report preparation, justifications, charts, graphs, statistical and narrative data for briefings and presentations to management officials; ability to direct and provide guidance, assistance and ensure proper process management to support the services such as nursing, personnel, supply management, and budget; ability to lead, develop, implement, evaluate, and improve processes and procedures to monitor the effectiveness, efficiency, and productivity of the program segment and/or organization directed.
 I do not possess the specialized experience at the GS-12 grade level.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙