Position Title
SUPERVISORY GENERAL SUPPLY SPECIALIST
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
OH-12768240-AR-25-141 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 22, 2025 to Tuesday, August 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Area of Consideration
1. Are you a current on-board Title 5 technician within the Ohio Army National Guard (SF-50 required)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you have experience, education or training involving administration of supply management, storage, cataloging, packaging and distribution or other work which provided the applicant with a general knowledge of one or more aspects of the supply field; Experience using computer and automation systems?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you have 1-year specialized experience or education equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-9)? Specialized experience includes Experience in managing the function of the work to be performed. Experience which includes leading, directing and assigning work of personnel; Experience supervising and/or managing supply personnel and a variety of supply functions; Knowledge on the entire inventory management supply system; Experience coordinating with other organizations on complex and controversial supply issues; Experience providing advice and guidance on supply regulations to upper levels of management regarding supply functions; Experience analyzing, developing, evaluating to improve supply programs, policies, procedures, techniques, etc.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
3. Exercises supervisory personnel management responsibilities. Advises and provides counsel to employees regarding policies, procedures, and directives of management. Selects or recommends selection of candidates for vacancies, promotions, details, and reassignments in consideration of skills and qualifications, mission requirements, EEO objectives. Develops, modifies, and/or interprets performance standards. Explains performance expectations to employees and provides regular feedback on strengths and weaknesses. Holds employees responsible for satisfactory completion of work assignments. Appraises subordinate workers performance ensuring consistency and equity in rating techniques. Recommends awards when appropriate and approves within-grade increases. Hears and resolves employee complaints and refers serious unresolved complaints to higher level management. Initiates action to correct performance or conduct problems. Effects minor disciplinary measures such as warnings and reprimands and recommends action in more serious disciplinary matters. Prepares documentation to support actions taken. Identifies employee developmental needs and provides or arranges for training (formal and on-the-job) to maintain and improve job performance. Encourages self-development. Approves master leave schedule assuring adequate coverage for peak workloads and traditional holiday vacation time. Discharges security responsibilities by ensuring education and compliance with security directives for employees with access to classified or sensitive material. Recognizes and takes action to correct situations posing a threat to the health or safety of subordinates. Applies EEO principles and requirements to all personnel management actions and decisions, and ensures all personnel are treated in a manner free of discrimination. Periodically reviews position descriptions to ensure accuracy, and the most effective utilization of personnel resources. Explains classification determinations to subordinate employees.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
4. Develops plans, programs, and policies for the operation, management, and administration of current and projected organizational programs. Provides guidance in establishing local procedures and/or control not specifically provided for by higher headquarters to include developing and publishing major command options to Army manuals and regulations. Directs development of local supplements and operating instructions and updates as required. Responsible for the implementation of logistics/supply computer operations and programs. Establishes, develops and maintains effective working relationships with other flights, supported organizations, and higher headquarters. Advises the Supply Management Officer and USPFO on available resources of personnel, equipment and funds to maintain maximum mission effectiveness.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected