Position Title
Medical Instrument Technician (Ultrasound)
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJT2512820130DHAR Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, October 21, 2025 to Tuesday, October 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
8
9


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Medical Instrument Technician (Ultrasound) position with the Department of Defense. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you meet the basic eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Medical Instrument Technician (Ultrasound) at the GS-08 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service which includes performing a variety of ultrasound examinations of human patients such obstetrical, extremities, transvaginal, and/or deep vein thrombosis (DVT); setting up, adjusting, or maintaining ultrasound diagnostic equipment.
 I have successfully completed one and a half years (i.e., 27 semester hours) of graduate level education in a field directly related to the work of the position, such as Sonography or Radiology. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have some graduate level education as described in B, but less than the required one and a half years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year (total semester hours minus 18) by 9. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Medical Instrument Technician (Ultrasound) at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-8 grade level in the Federal service which includes performing a variety of ultrasound examinations of human patients such obstetrical, extremities, transvaginal, and/or deep vein thrombosis (DVT); setting up, adjusting, or maintaining ultrasound diagnostic equipment; performing high level disinfectant sterilization procedures such as Trophon.
 I have successfully completed two full years of graduate level education or a master's degree in a field directly related to the work of the position, such as Sonography or Radiology. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have some specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have more than one year of graduate level education, but less than one and a half years of graduate level education as described in B. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100%. (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education in excess of 18 hours (total semester hours minus 18) by 9. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.) (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Occupational Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙