Position Title
Criminal Investigator - Special Agent (Reemployed Annuitant & CTAP/ICTAP/RPL) (Term Appointment)
Agency
Drug Enforcement Administration
Announcement Number
BA2025-7RA Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 1, 2025 to Friday, October 10, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?
If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Were you formerly employed as a Federal civilian employee, and have since retired? 
If eligible, submit a copy of your Separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your retired status.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Nogales, AZ
 B. Phoenix, AZ
 C. Sierra Vista, AZ
 D. Yuma, AZ
 E. Imperial County, CA
 F. San Ysidro, CA
 G. Las Cruces, NM
 H. Brownsville, TX
 I. Del Rio, TX
 J. Eagle Pass, TX
 K. El Paso, TX
 L. Houston, TX
 M. Laredo, TX
 N. McAllen, TX


2.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
2.
If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?

Note: You will be asked to provide a copy of the exemption prior to appointment

 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable


ESSENTIAL JOB FUNCTIONS


3.
This position requires that you have and maintain a valid driver's license.

 YES, I do have a valid driver's license.
 NO, I do not have a valid driver's license.


4.
DEA Special Agents must have proficient driving skills and be comfortable operating a motor vehicle under stressful conditions.

 I have proficient driving skills and am comfortable operating a motor vehicle under stressful conditions.
 I do not have proficient driving skills and/or am not comfortable operating a motor vehicle under stressful conditions.


5.
DEA Special Agents may be required to exert physical force in the arrest, search, pursuit, and restraint of another person(s).

 I am willing to exert physical force in the arrest, search, pursuit, and restraint of another person(s).
 I am not willing to exert physical force in the arrest, search, pursuit, and restraint of another person(s).


6.
DEA Special Agents are required to carry a firearm while on official duty.

 I am willing to carry a firearm while on official duty.
 I am not willing to carry a firearm while on official duty.


7.
DEA Special Agents may be required to use deadly force should circumstances dictate.

 I am willing to utilize deadly force should circumstances dictate.
 I am not willing to utilize deadly force should circumstances dictate.


8.
All DEA Special Agents are subject to transfer to a new geographical location to meet the organizational and program needs of the agency.  If hired, you will be required to sign a Mobility Agreement, which ensures that you agree to remain available for transfer, either for permanent or temporary assignment.
 I am willing to sign a mobility agreement as a condition of my employment.
 I am not willing to sign a mobility agreement as a condition of my employment.


9.
DEA Special Agents must often travel away from their duty location for extended periods of time.

 I am willing to travel away from my duty location for extended periods of time.
 I am not willing to travel away from my duty location for extended periods of time.


10.
1811 applicants who have successfully completed a Federal Criminal Investigation training program through another federal law enforcement agency, may qualify for a 3-week residential training program (FCIT Transcripts must be attached).
 I am willing to attend a residential training program.
 I am not willing to attend a residential training program.


11.
DEA Special Agents must be willing to work an average of a 50-hour work week.

 I am willing to work an average of a 50-hour work week.
 I am not willing to work an average of a 50-hour work week.


12.
DEA Special Agents must be willing to work an irregular schedule including nights, weekends, and holidays with possible extended absences from home.

 I am willing to work an irregular schedule including nights, weekends, and holidays with possible extended absences from home.
 I am not willing to work an irregular schedule including nights, weekends, and holidays with possible extended absences from home.


13.
As an applicant for a DEA Special Agent position, you will be required to undergo a comprehensive background investigation which includes, but is not limited to, contact with all references, employers, co-workers, personal associates and a review of your driving record, credit history, criminal history, and military service.

 I am willing to undergo a comprehensive background investigation.
 I am not willing to undergo a comprehensive background investigation.


14.
As an applicant for a DEA Special Agent position, you will be required to undergo a full-scope pre-employment polygraph examination as it relates to the truthfulness of your application and other aspects of the selection process, regarding illegal drug use, criminal history or integrity issues. Applicants who have previously completed and passed a polygraph examination with their current or previous agency, may seek reciprocity with the DEA during the hiring process. As part of the application process, DEA will review the applicant agency polygraph policy as well as its polygraph examination standards and process.  Upon completion of this review, DEA will decide on the type, if any, examination will be required.
 I am willing to undergo a pre-employment polygraph examination.
 I am not willing to undergo a pre-employment polygraph examination.


15.
The Criminal Investigator position requires moderate to arduous physical exertion involving walking and standing, use of firearms, and exposure to inclement weather. Manual dexterity with comparatively free motion of fingers, wrists, elbows, shoulders, and knee joints is required; arms/hands/legs/feet must function separately. The work requires physical strength and stamina to perform such activities as conducting long periods of surveillance, pursuing and restraining suspects, and carrying heavy equipment be utilized in investigative efforts.

Appointment will be contingent upon a candidate passing a pre-employment medical examination to ascertain possession of the physical, emotional, and mental requirements for the position. Any chronic disease or condition affecting the respiratory system, cardiovascular system, the gastrointestinal, musculoskeletal, digestive, nervous, endocrine or genitourinary systems that would impair full performance of the job duties will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis and may be disqualifying. The most common reasons for failing the examination involve vision and hearing impairments. Distance binocular vision without corrective lenses must test at least 20/200. Distant vision must test at least 20/20 in one eye and 20/30 in the other eye with or without corrective lenses. Color vision must be normal. Hearing in both ears is required. The use of hearing aids and cochlear implants in their present form are not acceptable. Any condition that would hinder full, efficient performance of the duties on the Criminal Investigator position or that would cause the individual to be a hazard to himself/herself or to others is disqualifying.
 I am willing to undergo a pre-employment medical examination.
 I am not willing to undergo a pre-employment medical examination.


SUITABILITY


Please read the following suitability questions, 16 through 21, VERY CAREFULLY. If you answer "Yes" to any of the questions in this section, you WILL be disqualified from consideration for this position. Ensure your responses are accurate and truthful before submitting your application.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


16.
Have you ever been convicted of a felony?
 Yes
 No


17.
Have you ever been convicted of any crime involving the use or attempted use of physical force, including but not limited to domestic violence or child abuse?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙