Position Title
Physical Therapy Assistant
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTA-12771276-25-NM Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 6, 2025 to Thursday, August 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position within the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), Veterans Health Administration (VHA). The following section is used to determine basic requirements for appointment in the federal government and qualification for a Physical Therapy Assistant.
BASIC REQUIREMENTS - Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and/or education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience and/or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. English Language Proficiency. Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7403(f)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Education. Individuals must meet at least one of the requirements below:
1) Possess an Associate degree from an accredited community college, junior college, college or university in a physical therapy assistant education program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education; OR

2)  Graduate of foreign physical therapy assistant degree programs that meet the educational requirement and have successfully passed the National Physical Therapy Exam (NPTE) for PTAs. (Equivalency document required); OR

3) Graduate of military physical therapy assistant programs that meet the educational requirement and have successfully passed the NPTE for PTAs.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Licensure. Do you hold a current, full, active and unrestricted license as a Physical Therapy Assistant in a State, Territory or Commonwealth (i.e. Puerto Rico) of the United States, or District of Columbia?

Exceptions for Non-Licensed Physical Therapy Assistant is  described in the Job opportunity announcement under "Basic Requirements" section.
 A. Yes
 B. No, but I meet the exception for Non-Licensed Physical Therapy Assistant and understand that I can only be considered for entry level.
 C. No
Grade Determination. In addition to the basic requirements outlined above, the following criteria must be met when determining the grade of candidates.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. Physical Therapy Assistant, GS-05.

Experience. None beyond the basic requirements.
Assignment: This is the entry level developmental position. PTAs receive ongoing guidance from more experienced staff members and require general clinical direction by the treating physical therapist. The treating physical therapist is available on a regularly scheduled basis to review the practice of the PTAs and support the PTAs in the performance of their services. PTAs perform preliminary chart review including medical history and contraindications for treatment. They treat patients through basic exercise, massage, gait and balance training and other therapeutic interventions.

Do you meet requirements for this grade?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Physical Therapy Assistant, GS-06.

Experience. One year of creditable experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-5) level AND Demonstrates the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities as described in the Job Announcement.
Assignment: PTAs at this grade level serve in developmental positions under general direction from PTs. They receive ongoing guidance from more experienced staff members and require general clinical direction by the treating physical therapist. PTAs develop a broad base of practical knowledge to assist the PT in reaching pre-determined patient goals.

Do you meet the requirements for this grade level?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Physical Therapy Assistant, GS-07.

Experience. One year of creditable experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-6) level AND Demonstrates the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities as described in the Job Announcement.
Assignment: This is a developmental level for PTAs. PTAs receive ongoing guidance from more experienced staff members and receive general direction by the treating PT. PTAs draw upon a broad base of practical and experiential knowledge in order to assist the PT in reaching pre-determined patient goals. PTAs work independently but still under the general direction of PTs. They observe patients' ability to perform specified tasks in order to provide ongoing assessment of information on patients' physical and functional status. PTAs work with the physical therapy staff to assess progress, modify treatment and set discharge plan. They provide clinical direction for PTA students.

Do you meet the requirements for this grade level?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Physical Therapy Assistant, GS-08.

Experience. One year of creditable experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-7) level AND Demonstrates the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities as described in the Job Announcement. Assignment: This is considered the journey level for PTAs. PTAs at this level collaborate with the primary PT then draw upon a broad base of practical knowledge and a well-developed treatment skill set in order to reach pre- determined patient goals by independently modifying techniques within the established plan of care. They implement the plan of care for patient cases, advance the program and continually review the patient's condition to determine their medical and functional status. They provide evidenced based skilled interventions including, but not limited to, therapeutic exercise, therapeutic activities, therapeutic modalities, gait training, transfer training, manual treatment, neuromuscular re-education, self-care and management training, patient/caregiver's education and group therapy.

Do you meet the requirements for this grade level?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Resume Reminder- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title
Grade Level (for federal positions)
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position)
 Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2020)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected