Position Title
TITLE 32 HELICOPTER PILOT (MI AASF-1)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MI-12789459-AR-25-128 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 29, 2025 to Thursday, September 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. US Citizens.  Are you a US Citizen?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. All on-board federal employees/technicians within the Michigan National Guard for which you are applying (Title 32 and Title 5). Are you a current on-board federal technician with the Michigan National Guard for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Organization states a Michigan National Guard Unit/Wing (Block 22).

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current member of the Michigan Army National Guard for which this position is being advertised, or are you willing and eligible to become a member and will contact a recruiter?

 A. Yes, I’m a current member of the Michigan Army National Guard.
 B. Yes, I’m willing and eligible to become a member of the Michigan Army National Guard and will contact a recruiter.
 C. Yes, I'm currently a member of the Michigan Air National Guard. I'm willing and eligible to join the Michigan Army National Guard. I will contact a recruiter.
 D. No, I’m not willing and eligible to become a member of the Michigan Army National Guard.
4. Is your current military rank WO1- 1LT?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, I am not a current military member.
 D. No, my current military rank is higher than the maximum allowed, but I have uploaded a signed statement that I am willing to take a reduction in military rank.
Assessment 1
Resume Reminder- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job Title
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Employer's name and address
Supervisor's name and contact information
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.

Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Does your resume support the General Experience criteria below?
An applicant must have a competent understanding of the occupation's basic principles and concepts. Applicants should have a minimum of one year on-the-job experience in the grade (or a comparable military rank) immediately below the next higher level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Does your resume support the Specialized Experience criteria below?

GS-12 through GS-13 Army National Guard Warrant Officer Positions
Applicants must demonstrate the following specialized experience competencies (skills, knowledge, and abilities) to qualify for appointments to GS-2181-12 and GS-2181-13 Army National Guard Dual Status Officer positions. For Army National Guard positions, must have working experiences in civilian aviation programs; or, military service aviation programs (active duty or reserve components); or, in the Army National Guard Aviation Support facilities; or, in the Air National Guard Operations Groups. Qualification competencies are determined by three factors in combination: The aircraft operated; the nature and purpose of assignments; and, the degree of hazard. Experienced in piloting and instructing pilot skills in one or more of the following main-frame/military aircraft: Fixed-wing, rotary, or remotely piloted aircraft (RPA). Although a variety of piloting administrative tasks are performed in support of an Army National Guard aviation program, experiences include the abilities to train and instruct others in the piloting of a main-frame military aircraft. Experienced in mission tasking, intelligence reporting, and applying weather information. Experienced in supervising and/or filing of flight plans and conducting crew briefings. Experienced in aircraft preflight inspections, aircraft loading, equipment assessments, and mission manning. Experienced in operating aircraft controls and equipment. Experienced in performing or supervising the work procedures involved in navigation, in-flight refueling; search and rescue operations; or surveillance and reconnaissance. Ability to conduct or supervise the training of crew members in simple to complex mission specific tasks. Experienced in developing plans and policies, monitoring operations, and advising commanders. Experienced in flight theory, air navigation, meteorology, flying directives, aircraft operating procedures, and mission tactics. Must have at least two years experiences in instructing others in a specific air-frame/military aircraft. Competent to complete various piloting administrative tasks performed in support of Army National Guard aviation programs. Skilled to instruct others to pilot military aircraft on a regular and recurring basis. Experienced in the aviation unit quality control management programs; plus, skilled in the unit flying, explosive, and ground safety programs in accordance with Department of the Army, National Guard Bureau, and Occupational Safety and Health Administration directives.

GS-12 through GS-13 Army National Guard Officer Positions
Experienced in following directives, regulations, accident reports, safety data, and local operating conditions to determine unit safety program requirements. Experienced in coordinating with appropriate agencies to ensure compliance with all applicable safety regulations and programs. Experienced in one or more missions such as, air-to-air; air-to- ground; mortar-to-arm escort; surveillance; reconnaissance; surface attack; killer-scout; target illumination; or laser targeting. Experienced in piloting manned or unmanned aircraft.

Experiences may include the traditional "stick and rudder" type controls for piloting aircraft direction, altitude, and speed. Experienced in on-board aircraft instrumentation and aircraft mounted video cameras. Experienced in visual flight-rule type flying and aircraft instrument flying. Experienced in flying simulated "real world" combat and non-combat missions and terrain. Experienced in planning, scheduling, and conducting flights through Federal Aviation Administration controlled national airspace. Experienced in applying operational directives, training directives, instructions, standard operating procedures, and special instructions of National Guard Bureau, United States Army, and gaining commands. Experienced in working independently to plan and perform work assignments. Experienced in completing safe and efficient missions through the use of Operational Risk Management. Experienced in cancelling flying activities, diverting aircraft, dictating mission requirements, approving specific activities, coordinating for airport or airspace utilization with FAA, and/or, directing emergency actions involving unit support agencies. Experienced in using applicable Army aviation regulations, policies, requirements and standards, skills and practices; and, the applying instructional techniques to the training of other pilots in the Army National Guard flying facilities.

Experienced in conducting particular combat tactics, missions, or specific main-frame aircraft; or, flying in mountainous terrain, performing tactical remote site evaluation, performing landings on remote sites, providing ground and flight training, and conducting night-vision operations and instruction. Experienced in standardization and evaluation programs, written ground examinations, emergency procedures, and aircrew performance standards in accordance with applicable directives and Federal Aviation Administration certification requirements.

Experienced in reviewing and complying with applicable service flight publications and directives for accuracy and currency; and knowledgeable of weapons and tactics for applicable military aircraft. Experienced in maintaining detailed wartime and peacetime contingency plans and supplements for unit mobility, deployment, strange field operations/ employment, and redeployment.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you possess the mandatory qualification requirements below? (Aviation Service Entry Date (ASED) as annotated on DA Form 759, Individual Flight Record and Flight Certificate must be uploaded at the time of your application)
Eligibility requirements for Dual Status technician positions in this occupation are based on the candidate's possession of Federal Aviation Administration pilot certificates -OR- appropriate military certifications, military ratings in the main-frame military aircraft of employment, and the required competencies (knowledge, skills, and abilities).
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Do you hold one of the following Branch, MOS, or AFCS?

Army National Guard Officer
Branch 15 - Aviation
Branch 67 - Medical Service Corps

Army National Guard Warrant Officer
Branch 15 - Aviation

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you willing and able to uphold the qualification requirements below for this position?
Prior to appointment, an applicant's military medical record must indicate a completed and current medical physical, flight physical, medical profile, and completed/cleared drug test.
Possess a valid state driver's license to operate government motor vehicles, for the state in which they live or are principally employed, in accordance with Army and Air Force Vehicle Operations Directives; and,
Qualify to operate government motor vehicles and vehicular equipment for "Maintenance Purposes Only" according to Army or Air Force Vehicle Maintenance Operations Directives.
AND 
Applicants must have the following:
Must have the appropriate security clearance:
In regard to the aviator position's Series GS 2181 and the DoD criteria for the technician position's compatible military skill classification security clearance requirements. NOTE: Refer to the military services' specific classification directives for the military skills' required security clearance levels;

           OR

Awarded a current Single Scope Background Investigation according to Army or Air Force Personnel Security Program Management Directives. Award of entry level to the technician position's compatible military skill, without a completed SSBI, is authorized provided an interim Top Secret security clearance was granted. NOTE: Refer to the military service specific directives for various authorized interim clearance levels.
       2. No record of claustrophobia or claustrophobic tendencies.
       3. To maintain the position - The incumbent must have a current Network License according to Army or Air Force Directives, Licensing Network Users and Certifying  Network Professionals. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
Please read and respond to all the questions below. For each Competency / Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSA's), choose the response below that best describes your experience and/or training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application and information your references provide.

Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
6. Has knowledge of aircraft systems and procedures under normal, instrument, and emergency conditions. Flights are conducted in both day and night missions in visual and instrument conditions. Has knowledge of the theory of flight, air navigations, meteorology, flying directives, aircraft operating procedures and mission tactics as they apply to the piloting of the RPA.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
7. The incumbent pilots light and heavy aircraft to transport passengers and equipment to various locations within the regional area served. The flights are conducted day and night
generally in fair weather conditions between airports having modern landing facilities. However, some assignments require skill in short landing and take-offs. Most flights require skill in instrument flight techniques.


 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.
8. Performance of maintenance test flights of aircraft following repair and maintenance to determine the airworthiness of the aircraft. This duty while not occupying more than 10% of the time is performed on a regular and recurring basis. Test flight assignments at the OS-15 level involves testing aircraft with substantially modified systems under critical flight conditions. That level is not found in this position.
 A. I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 B. I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 C. I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 D. I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 E. I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
9. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification using your resume. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected