Position Title
Helicopter Flight Instructor (CH-47F)
Agency
U.S. Army Training and Doctrine Command
Announcement Number
SDSB245731681680HP Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, July 11, 2025 to Monday, August 11, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.
1. This position requires the incumbent be able to obtain and maintain a determination of eligibility for a Secret security clearance or access for the duration of employment. A background investigation and credit check are required. Are you willing to undergo pre-employment and recurring investigations to obtain and maintain a Secret clearance as required?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of occasional time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to occasional of the time?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This position has been designated "Mission Essential". In the event of severe weather conditions or other such emergency type situations (natural or man-made disaster) the incumbent is required to report to work or remain at work as scheduled to support mission operations. Are you willing and able to report to work or remain at work under adverse conditions to obtain and maintain this position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. This position requires shift work to provide coverage on evenings, weekends, holidays, or special situations. Employee shifts are rotated on a regularly scheduled basis. Are you willing and able to work on a rotating shift basis to meet work requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. This position requires incumbent to obtain and maintain an Army Class II annual flight physical IAW AR 40-501. Are you willing and able to obtain and maintain an Army Class II annual flight physical IAW AR 40-501?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. This position requires you possess the appropriate Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Pilot Certificates, FAA Flight Instructor Certificate and/or appropriate military rating. Do you possess the appropriate Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Pilot Certificates, FAA Flight Instructor Certificate and/or appropriate military rating? (MUST attach a copy front & back)
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. The duties of this position meet the criteria for compliance with Federal and Department of the Army Drug Free Workplace Programs. Detection of the presence of drugs is warranted. This position is subject to a pre-employment screening, and random testing thereafter, to include testing based on reasonable suspicion and testing due to direct involvement with an on-duty accident. Are you willing to refrain from the use of illegal drugs and submit to a pre-employment drug screening and random testing thereafter to obtain and maintain employment in this position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Helicopter Flight Instructor (CH-47F) position with the Department of Army. We will evaluate your resume and your response to this occupational questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
1. Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Helicopter Flight Instructor (CH-47F) at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service that includes 1) implementing methods of instruction for student pilots in the CH-47 Helicopter; (2) evaluating student pilots in all levels of development in areas such as flight maneuvers, aircraft systems and limitations, instruments flight procedures, and terrain flight; and (3) operating the CH-47 Helicopter while instructing and evaluating the student.
 B. My experience is not reflected in the above statement.
2. This position requires you possess the appropriate Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Pilot Certificates, FAA Flight Instructor Certificate and/or appropriate military rating. Do you possess the appropriate Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Pilot Certificates, FAA Flight Instructor Certificate and/or appropriate military rating? (MUST attach a copy front & back)

 A. Yes, I possess the appropriate Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Pilot Certificates, and FAA Flight Instructor Certificate and/or appropriate military rating.
 B. No, I do not possess the appropriate Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Pilot Certificates, and FAA Flight Instructor Certificate and/or appropriate military rating.
3. This position requires you possess the required flight hour requirements and provide appropriate documentation. Do you possess and can you provide appropriate documentation of minimum flight hours as follows: Total Flight Hours- 1500; Pilot in Command - 250; Night Flying - 75; Flying Time in the Last 12 Months - 100; Instructor Hours - 500; Heavy Helicopter Hours - 500 (Up to 250 hours flying time acquired in heavy multi-engine airplanes may be substituted); Instrument Hours - 75; Actual Weather- 10. In-service placement for current Federal Employees flight hour requirements may be subject to waiver based on OPM Qualification Standards which may be accessed at: http://www.opm.gov/qualifications/Standards/IORs/gs2100/2181.htm (http://www.opm.gov/qualifications/Standards/IORs/gs2100/2181.htm) FLIGHT HOURS MUST BE DOCUMENTED ON THE RESUME IN THE ABOVE FORMAT. (Must attach a copy of official flight records such as DA-759, DA-759-1, or equivalent).
 A. Yes, I possess the required flight hours.
 B. Yes, I possess the required flight hours, EXCEPT 100 Hours Flying Time in the Last 12 Months. I will require an approved waiver.
 C. No, I do not possess the required fight hours.
4. This position requires the incumbent to possess a current first or second-class medical certificate in accordance with FAA regulations at the time of appointment. Do you currently possess a current first or second-class medical certificate in accordance with FAA regulations? (Attach a copy)

 A. Yes, I possess or am able to obtain a first or second-class medical certificate in accordance with FAA regulations.
 B. No, I do not possess or am not able to obtain a first or second-class medical certificate in accordance with FAA regulations.
5. Your responses to the announcement and assessment questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected