Position Title
Supervisory Mission Support Specialist
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
USBP-IMP-12779599-JJA Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 20, 2025 to Tuesday, August 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of GS-13?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. CBP or Federal employees who competed for and currently hold, or previously held, a permanent GS-13 (or equivalent) or higher, may be referred for selection without competition under our agency promotion procedures.  Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under non-temporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
3. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
4. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
5.

All newly appointed, first-time CBP supervisors are required to complete the mandatory leadership training. The Office of Training and Development will schedule eligible supervisors to attend within the first 90 days of appointment. All newly appointed, first time permanent supervisors shall attain the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to successfully perform their supervisory responsibilities by completing required leadership training in accordance with current agency policy.

NOTE: This training may be waived if previously completed.

Do you acknowledge that you have read and understand the above requirement, including current or former first time supervisors who have previously completed the mandatory training and will not be required to retake the course?

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
Assessment 1
The following question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-13 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes establishing and carrying out specific action plans for accomplishing short-term goals and objectives; assigning and explaining work requirements to subordinate staff to achieve efficiency of services while increasing productivity; adjusting work operations to meet priorities or changing programs or production requirements within available resources; developing and carrying out affirmative action efforts or plans regarding staffing, motivation and training to develop all employees.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
2. Select the choice that best describes your experience applying human capital analytics to analyzing staffing levels and developing recruitment plans (e.g., work measurement, task analysis, staff-to-workload ratios, etc.).
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. Under the guidance of others, I have applied human capital analytics for the purpose of analyzing staffing levels and developing recruitment plans.
 C. I have independently developed and applied human capital analytics for the purpose of analyzing staffing levels and developing recruitment plans.
 D. I have guided others in the development and applied human capital metrics for the purpose of analyzing staffing levels and developing recruitment plans.
3. Select the choice that best describes your experience in tracking and controlling a budget.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have entered costs in spreadsheets and standard forms.
 C. I have tracked budget transactions and approved budget requests in an organization.
 D. I have had experience in overseeing, reviewing, and approving budget requests and expenditures for large programs and/or offices in an organization.
4. Select the choice that best describes your experience advising management on program changes or developments.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have advised management of program changes or developments under the guidance of a supervisor or more senior individual.
 C. I have independently advised management of program changes or developments.
5. Select the choice that best describes your experience coordinating mission support duties (i.e., budget, human resources, workers' compensation, payroll) in your organization.

 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in coordinating mission support duties (i.e., budget, human resources, workers' compensation, payroll) for my work unit or department.
 C. I have held primary responsibility for coordinating mission support duties (i.e., budget, human resources, workers' compensation, payroll) for my department.
 D. I have held primary responsibility for coordinating mission support duties (i.e., budget, human resources, workers' compensation, payroll) across multiple departments.
6. Select the choice that best describes your experience in and responsibility for employee training.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in coordinating mission support duties (i.e., budget, human resources, workers' compensation, payroll) for my work unit or department.
 C. I have held primary responsibility for coordinating mission support duties (i.e., budget, human resources, workers' compensation, payroll) for my department.
 D. I have held primary responsibility for coordinating mission support duties (i.e., budget, human resources, workers' compensation, payroll) across multiple departments.
7. Select the choice that best describes your experience in recruiting and selecting personnel.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in the recruitment and selection of personnel.
 C. I have been responsible for recruiting personnel and developing recommendations for selection.
 D. I have overseen the recruitment of personnel, and I have made selections of staff members based on my own review and the recommendations of lower level staff members.
8. Select the choice that best describes your experience in improving the efficiency and quality of the work performed.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have made specific changes that have improved my efficiency and the quality of my work.
 C. I have recommended changes that have been adopted by multiple work units and have improved their efficiency and the quality of their work.
 D. I have recommended specific changes that have improved my work unit's efficiency and the quality of its work.
9. Select the choice that best describes your experience measuring the efficiency and effectiveness of operations performed by your work unit.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have gathered measurements used to evaluate the efficiency and effectiveness of operations within my work unit.
 C. I have developed and gathered measurements designed to evaluate the efficiency and effectiveness of operations within my work unit.
 D. I have guided others in the development and gathering of measurements designed to evaluate the efficiency and effectiveness of operations within my work unit.
10. Select the choice that best describes your experience in planning and organizing work.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have followed the schedule, goals, and guidelines prepared by others.
 C. I have coordinated with others to set schedules, goals and priorities for projects within my work unit.
 D. I have coordinated with others to set schedules, goals and priorities for projects spanning work units within my broader organization.
11. Select the choice that best describes your experience coordinating and collaborating with others to complete projects.

 A. I have had experience in performing this task.
 B. I have participated on project teams comprised of individuals from within or outside my work unit.
 C. I have led project teams comprised of individuals from within my work unit.
 D. I have led project teams comprised of individuals from within and outside my immediate work unit.
12. Select the choice that best describes your experience developing and maintaining relationships with individuals in your work group, office, and organization.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have maintained relationships with individuals in my work group or office, primarily in the completion of my regular job duties or in my response to specific inquiries.
 C. I have maintained relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group and office to exchange information, resolve problems, or participate in collaborative operations.
 D. I have developed and maintained extensive relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group, office, and organization to resolve problems, plan joint operations, and establish long-term working relationships.
13. Select the choice that best describes your experience with performance appraisal systems/approaches.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have a basic knowledge of performance appraisal systems and approaches.
 C. I have prepared performance appraisal objectives and standards and formally rated employees' performance.
 D. I have implemented, maintained, and monitored a performance appraisal system for a work unit, which included rating subordinates' performance and evaluating performance ratings assigned by other supervisors.
14. Select the choice that best describes your experience handling stressful situations.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have dealt with occasional periods of mild stress as part of my regular job duties.
 C. As part of my regular job duties, I have dealt on a daily basis with moderate stress (for example, handling heavy workloads, meeting tight deadlines).
 D. As part of my regular job duties, I have frequently dealt with highly stressful situations (for example, rapidly changing priorities, dealing face-to-face with hostile or violent individuals, handling crisis situations).
15. Select the choice that best describes your experience inspiring, motivating, and/or guiding others toward accomplishment of goals.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had limited experience, gained primarily as a team leader or acting supervisor, in inspiring, motivating, and/or guiding others toward the accomplishment of specific goals/objectives assigned to the team.
 C. I have had extensive experience, gained as a supervisor or manager, in inspiring, motivating, and/or guiding others toward the accomplishment of goals by monitoring their work and providing guidance, training, and/or direction as needed.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected