Position Title
Supervisory National Bank Examiner (Assistant Deputy Comptroller), NB-0570-VII
Agency
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
Announcement Number
MP-HQ-CA-25-5450-12795003 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 12, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current OCC employee on a permanent appointment (includes rotational positions) in the Excepted Service or Competitive Service who has not held the band/grade level of the position being advertised?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current OCC employee on a permanent appointment (includes rotational positions) in the Excepted Service or Competitive Service who has held the band/grade level and promotion potential of the position being advertised?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Boston, MA
 B. Minneapolis, MN
 C. Saint Louis, MO
 D. Longview, TX
 E. Lubbock, TX
2. If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Not Applicable
3. May we contact your current supervisor for a reference?
 A. Yes
 B. No
If you are an annuitant, your salary or annuity may be reduced upon employment.
4. If you are among the best-qualified applicants referred for consideration, you may be required to complete one (or more) job-related structured interviews and assessments. The disclosure of structured interview questions and assessment questions undermines merit-based selection processes.

Applicants are expressly prohibited from disclosing, publishing, reproducing, posting, or transmitting the content of the structured interview questions and assessments in whole or in part, in any form or by any means, oral or written, electronic or mechanical, for any purpose1.
Applicants who are not willing to abide by these conditions will NOT be able to participate in the selection process.
If an applicant is found to have violated this agreement, they will be disqualified.
If an applicant is a current OCC employee or becomes an OCC employee and is found to have violated this agreement, they may be subject to disciplinary action up to and including removal.

I agree to comply with the above statement:
 A. Yes
 B. No
1"These provisions are consistent with and do not supersede, conflict with, or otherwise alter the employee obligations, rights, or liabilities created by existing statute or Executive order relating to (1) classified information, (2) communications to Congress, (3) the reporting to an Inspector General or the Office of Special Counsel of a violation of any law, rule, or regulation, or mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to public health or safety, or (4) any other whistleblower protection. The definitions, requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions, and liabilities created by controlling Executive orders and statutory provisions are incorporated into this agreement and are controlling." This agreement, policy or form (as applicable) does not prohibit or restrict "an employee or applicant for employment from disclosing to Congress, the Special Counsel, the Inspector General of an agency, or any other agency component responsible for internal investigation or review any information that relates to any violation of any law, rule, or regulation, or mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to public health or safety, or any other whistleblower protection." 5 U.S.C. § 2302(b)(13).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.

Your answers to the following questions should reflect the qualifications you possess, or expect to possess, within 30 calendar days after the closing date of the announcement.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Are you a current OCC employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the NB-VI level, as described in the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement? Please review the announcement carefully before responding.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you credentialed or expect to receive your NBE commission within 30 calendar days after the closing date of this announcement to lead exams of both national banks and federal savings and loans?


 A. Yes
 B. No
4. In the text box below please specify the date (month/year) that you received or expect to receive your NBE Commission. If you don't expect to receive the commission within 30 days please type not applicable.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. I understand that my resume must contain sufficient information to show that I meet the minimum qualification requirements, and that to ensure I receive any credit for relevant work experience, my resume should include the start and end dates for each job held (month and year), number of hours worked per week, and a description of duties performed in each job.

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. List the position titles, grade levels (if federal service), dates (month/day/year), and number of hours per week for each position held that meets the one year specialized experience requirement. Please make sure your resume adequately describes your job responsibilities for each position listed.

7. I have experience evaluating risk identification systems in the following areas.
 A. Commercial credit or commercial real estate credit
 B. Retail credit, including mortgage banking
 C. Interest rate risk
 D. Market Risk, including Value at Risk and specific risk modeling
 E. Earnings planning and budgeting
 F. Capital planning, including economic capital and capital stress testing
 G. Operational risk, including payment and custody processing
 H. Banking regulations, including examination and supervisory methods
 I. Asset Management/Trust
 J. Compliance Management
 K. Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering
 L. Information Technology
 M. Enterprise Risk Management
 N. Strategic Planning
 O. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item)
8. Which of the following describes your experience in applying knowledge related to banking laws, regulations, concepts, policies, or procedures?
 A. I have no training or experience applying this knowledge.
 B. I have applied this knowledge as part of my professional experience at a small financial service provider (i.e., assets less than $10 billion).
 C. I have applied this knowledge as part of my professional experience at a midsized financial service provider (i.e., assets equal to or greater than $10 billion but less than $250 billion).
 D. I have applied this knowledge as part of my professional experience at a large financial service provider (i.e., assets over $250 billion).
9. Which of the following describes your experience developing and executing risk-based supervisory strategies.
 A. I have no training or experience developing and executing risk-based supervisory strategies.
 B. I have been a portfolio manager or examiner-in-charge of a community bank (i.e., assets less than 10 billion).
 C. I have been a functional examiner-in-charge at a midsize bank (i.e., assets equal to or greater than $10 billion but less than $250 billion).
 D. I have been an examiner-in-charge at a midsize bank (i.e., assets equal to or greater than $10 billion but less than $250 billion).
 E. I have been an examiner-in-charge at a large bank (i.e., assets over $250 billion).
10. Which of the following best describes your highest level of leadership experience?
 A. I have no formal leadership experience or training.
 B. I have no formal leadership experience, but I have completed leadership training.
 C. I have led a temporary work team, such as a project team or task force convened to examine a particular issue or produce a specific product.
 D. I have served as a technical team lead or functional lead, but I did not have formal supervisory responsibility.
 E. I have served as a 1st level supervisor in a work unit with a permanent staff.
 F. I have served as a 2nd level supervisor in an organization with a permanent staff, and with one or more subordinate workgroups.
11. Which of the following leadership activities have you performed in a professional environment? (Select all that apply)
 A. Planned work to be accomplished by subordinate members of work teams
 B. Assigned work based on organizational priorities
 C. Set and adjusted priorities and prepared schedules for completion of work
 D. Provided instruction to employees on administrative matters
 E. Approved expenditures such as training, overtime, or employee travel
 F. Recommended or approved awards or bonuses
 G. Recommended or approved personnel decisions such as hiring and promotions
 H. Evaluated and approved/rejected work products
 I. Initiated/participated in discussions with management relative to securing resources necessary to achieve organizational goals
 J. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item)
12. Which of the following leadership activities have you performed in a professional environment? (Select all that apply)
 A. Developed performance plans and goals for staff
 B. Evaluated work performance of subordinates or team members
 C. Identified development and training needs of employees based on organizational goals
 D. Effected minor disciplinary measures, such as warnings or reprimands
 E. Effected significant disciplinary measures, such as suspensions or removals
 F. Provided advice or counsel to employees on career development opportunities
 G. Facilitated the resolution of conflicts or disagreements between employees
 H. Heard and rendered decisions on formal grievances or employee complaints
 I. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item)
13. Which of the following describes your highest level of experience developing goals or objectives to achieve desired results for an organization?
 A. I have no training or experience developing goals or objectives.
 B. I have identified best practices or process improvements for consideration by management.
 C. I have developed short-term (1-2 years) goals or objectives for an organization.
 D. I have developed long-term (3-5 years) goals and objectives for an organization.
 E. I have determined methodologies to use in achieving an organization’s goals and objectives.
 F. I have monitored and evaluated the accomplishment of an organization’s goals and objectives.
14. Which of the following best describes your experience organizing work and setting priorities?
 A. I have no training or experience organizing work and setting priorities.
 B. I have established and met timelines for my own work or assignments.
 C. I have managed competing assignments or projects and I have adjusted priorities when necessary.
 D. I have monitored the progress of projects or work assigned to others to ensure that milestones and deadlines were met.
 E. I have identified and directed resources to carry out programs and functions.
15. Select the response that best describes your experience ensuring and maintaining accountability.
 A. I have monitored and evaluated processes, procedures or metrics for managing programs, projects, human resources, or physical assets in order to maintain and ensure the integrity of operations within my own organization.
 B. I have helped develop systems for monitoring and evaluating processes, procedures or metrics for managing programs, projects, human resources, or physical assets in order to maintain and ensure the integrity of operations within my own organization.
 C. I have played a lead role in establishing systems for monitoring and evaluating processes, procedures or metrics for managing programs, projects, human resources, or physical assets in order to maintain and ensure the integrity of operations within my own organization, and have taken corrective action as needed.
 D. None of the above.
16. Which of the following types of information related to the financial services industry have you communicated orally? (Select all that apply)
 A. Review findings related to a 1 or 2-rated institution
 B. Review findings related to an institution with an enforcement action
 C. Review findings related to a 3-, 4-, or 5-rated institution with an enforcement action
 D. Varied multiple downgrades (rating and/or Risk Assessment System (RAS) including Matters Requiring Attention (MRA) and/or VOL (Violations of Law)
 E. Guidance on the application of laws, regulations or rules pertaining to the financial services industry
 F. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the only response selected for this item)
17. Which of the following represents your experience verbally communicating with others? (Select all that apply)
 A. I have orally presented at meetings with senior agency officials.
 B. I have orally presented to groups of bankers or banking associations.
 C. I have orally presented to community or consumer groups or advocates.
 D. I have orally presented to interagency, international policy or supervisory committees.
 E. I have orally presented as an instructor/presenter at regional training events or meetings.
 F. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the only response selected for this item)
18. Which of the following types of documents have you written as part of your work related to the financial services industry? (Select all that apply)
 A. Examination or audit reports assessing the condition, operations, or risk of a financial institution
 B. Recommendations for formal enforcement actions or appeals
 C. Policies
 D. Speeches
 E. Talking points
 F. Legal briefs
 G. Business plans
 H. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the only response selected for this item)
19. I have composed or approved the content of written materials for distribution to the following audiences. (Select all that apply)
 A. Board, management, or department heads
 B. Groups of bankers or banking associations
 C. Training participants at regional or national events
 D. Senior agency officials
 E. Interagency, international policy or supervisory committees
 F. Banker forums, industry groups, or trade associations
 G. External examiners or auditors
 H. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the only response selected for this item)
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
20. Your ratings in this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify or exaggerate your experience level may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency, if selected. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning; 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy; and 3) have verified that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability as reflected in your resume.

Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and are supported in my resume
No, I do not accept this agreement and I no longer wish to be considered for this position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
By clicking "Next" (below), I acknowledge that OCC ethics standards generally prohibit employees, their spouses, and minor children (as defined by state law) from holding securities, such as stocks and bonds, of banks, savings associations, or their affiliates, such as bank holding companies. If I am selected for and choose to accept this position, I understand that I, my spouse, and minor children will be expected to divest any securities prohibited by OCC ethics standards.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected