Position Title
General Attorney
Agency
Social Security Administration
Announcement Number
SH12753711 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, June 24, 2025 to Friday, July 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Birmingham, AL
 B. Phoenix, AZ
 C. Los Angeles, CA
 D. Denver, CO
 E. Atlanta, GA
 F. Boise, ID
 G. Chicago, IL
 H. Baton Rouge, LA
 I. New Orleans, LA
 J. Minneapolis, MN
 K. Jackson, MS
 L. Saint Louis, MO
 M. Las Vegas, NV
 N. Concord, NH
 O. Albany, NY
 P. Brooklyn, NY
 Q. Buffalo, NY
 R. Manhattan, New York, NY
 S. Syracuse, NY
 T. Raleigh, NC
 U. Oklahoma City, OK
 V. Portland, OR
 W. Pittsburgh, PA
 X. Providence, RI
 Y. Columbia, SC
 Z. Nashville, TN
 AA. Beaumont, TX
 AB. Houston, TX
 AC. Plano, TX
 AD. Charlottesville, VA
 AE. Richmond, VA
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
13
14
Assessment 1
1. Do you possess a law degree from a School of Law accredited by the American Bar Association? (Transcripts are required to substantiate possession of the required education).

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a member in good standing of the Bar of a State, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico? This is a continuing requirement of the position. (Applicants must provide current proof that they are authorized to practice law.)

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. If you are applying for the GS-13 position, do you have 52 weeks of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level that is typically in or related to the position and which has equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to perform the duties described in the announcement? Such experience includes 3 years of professional legal experience working as an attorney with at least one year of this experience being equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. If you are applying for the GS-14 position, do you have 52 weeks of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level that is typically in or related to the position and which has equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to perform the duties described in the announcement? Such experience includes 4 years of professional legal experience working as an attorney with at least one year of this experience being equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected