Position Title
Clinical Laboratory Scientist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSU-12755831-25-TLK Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, June 27, 2025 to Monday, July 7, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
2. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Clinical Laboratory Scientist position with the Department of Veterans Affairs. Please read the questions below and answer them according to your qualifications and education.
Basic Requirements:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. English Language Proficiency

Candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with 38 U.S.C. ? 7403 (f).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Education

A bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university.

Foreign Education. To be creditable, education completed outside the U.S. must be deemed at least equivalent to that gained in a conventional U.S. program by a private organization specializing in the interpretation of foreign educational credentials. Graduates of foreign baccalaureate degree programs meet the educational requirements if they meet either of the following:

Foreign transcripts are evaluated by an acceptable evaluation agency, and the degree is found to be equivalent to a NAACLS-approved U.S. clinical laboratory science degree program.
OR
The applicant submits a letter from ASCP BOC or AMT stating the individual is eligible to take the certification examination.

NOTE: Possession of a certification identified under the Certification section listed below automatically determines the foreign education as creditable and no further documentation or proof of equivalency is needed.
 A. I have a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university.
 B. I will have completed a bachelor?s degree or higher from an accredited college or university by the time of hire.
 C. I have a foreign education and Foreign transcripts were evaluated by an acceptable evaluation agency, and the degree is found to be equivalent to a NAACLS-approved U.S. clinical laboratory science degree program.
 D. I have a foreign education and have a letter from the ASCP BOC or AMT stating I was eligible to take the certification examination.
 E. I do not meet the education requirements as listed above.
3. Certification

Candidates must meet one of the certification options below:
Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT.
Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT.
Categorical certification or Specialist certification by ASCP or AMT.
NOTE: Categorical and specialist certifications are not acceptable for CLS Generalist positions or lab sections unrelated to the categorical or specialist certification held. Categorical or specialist certifications are acceptable for higher-graded positions within the relevant lab section or one of the non-section specific assignments (including, Ancillary Testing Coordinator, Education Coordinator, Laboratory Information Manager, Quality Manager, Laboratory Manager, Regional Technical Specialist, National Quality and Compliance Agent, Regional Program Manager, Regional Director, Laboratory Director, or National Quality and Compliance Officer).

Exception for Non-Certified.
Applicants who do not currently hold valid certification may be hired by VA and actively work toward their certification if they meet one of the routes identified in Appendix A that makes them eligible to take the MLS certification exam through the ASCP BOC or the MLS certification exam through AMT Certification Agency.
Non-Certified applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for licensure may be given a temporary appointment CLS under the authority of 38 U.S.C. ? 7405(c)(2).
Non-Certified individuals may only provide care under the supervision of a certified CLS at or above the FPL.
Non-certified individuals may only be appointed at the entry level and may not be promoted/converted until certification is obtained.
Temporary appointments of non-certified CLS may not be extended beyond 2 years or be converted to a new temporary appointment.

Based on the information above, do you meet any of the criteria listed above regarding the required certification(s)?
 A. I have one of the following MLS, MT, and a categorical certification or specialist certification by ASCP or AMT.
 B. I will have one of the following MLS, MT, and a categorical certification or specialist certification by ASCP or AMT by the time of hire
 C. I do not have the required certification but am actively working towards getting the required certification.
 D. I do have the required certification nor am I actively working towards the obtaining the required certification.
Grade Determination
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. GS-07

Experience: None beyond the basic requirements.

Do you meet the experience requirements as listed above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. GS-9

Experience or Education: Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:

1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade.
OR
Master's degree or 2 academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in medical technology or a directly related science.

Do you meet the experience or education requirement listed above?
 A. Have 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade.
 B. Have Master's Degree or 2 academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in medical technology or a directly related science.
 C. I do not have the required experience or education requirements listed above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
6. GS-9

Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Knowledge of policies and procedures of clinical laboratory testing.
Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance principles.
Knowledge of laboratory equipment and routine maintenance.
Ability to work as a team member and effectively complete assignments.
Ability to read and interpret written instructions.
Ability to accurately perform pre-analytical, analytical, and post-analytical phases of testing.
Do you meet the KSA requirements as listed above?

Note: Resume must reflect experience that supports the KSAs as listed above.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. GS-11

Experience or Education

Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:

1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level.
OR
Must have 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science.

Do you meet the experience or education requirement listed above?
 A. Have 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level. OR
 B. Have 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science.
 C. I do not have the experience or education requirements listed above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
8. GS-11

Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Knowledge of professional clinical laboratory science principles, practices, concepts, and theories that support sound, independent work.
Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance procedures and principles of performance improvement.
Skill in informatics, laboratory data flow, and laboratory processes.
Ability to maintain, troubleshoot, and repair instrumentation.
Ability to use independent technical judgment to analyze and interpret laboratory results.
Ability to read, interpret, and apply complex written instructions.
Ability to communicate, consult, and interact with other members of the health care team, external relations, customer service, and patient education.
Do you meet the KSA requirements as listed above?

Note: Resume must reflect experience that supports the KSAs as listed above.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title - Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month and year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week).
This information is used to verify qualifications and accreditation. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Please make sure you submit all required documentation before the closing date of the announcement!
Transcripts Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) you must submit a copy of your transcripts (official or unofficial) with your application. Be sure your name, name of the school attended, dates attended, and any degree conferred, or certificate issued is stated on the transcript.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected