Position Title
Diagnostic Radiologic Tech
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSX-12766962-25-RR Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, July 18, 2025 to Monday, August 4, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist (DRT) position with the VA. Select the appropriate answer to the following questions based on your level of education and experience that demonstrates you meet the basic requirements for this position.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. English Proficiency. Are you proficient in spoken and written English?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Education. Have you completed a full-time training course of at least 24 months in duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school Diagnostic Radiologic Technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from other accrediting agencies as recognized by the Department of Education (DOE)? NOTE: Assignment to the clinical program director requires meeting JRCERT minimum educational standards as noted in the assignment description.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Certification. All applicants must be certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (ARRT) (R). (NOTE: Exception for Non-Certified, Entry Level Candidates. Non-certified DRTs who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for ARRT (R) certification may be given a temporary appointment as a graduate DRT under the authority of 38 U.S.C. ? 7405(c)(2)(B). The appointing official may waive the requirement of certification for a period not to exceed two years for a DRT that provides care under the supervision of a certified DRT at or above the full performance level. This exception only applies at the GS-5 entry level technician. For grade levels above the entry level, the candidate must be certified. Temporary appointments of non-certified DRTs may not be extended beyond two years or converted to a new temporary appointment.)
Do you meet this requirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. To qualify at the GS-5 level: Do you meet the basic education requirement in question 2 above?

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. To qualify at the GS-6 level: applicants must have at least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level or the successful completion of one full academic year of graduate education leading to a degree in radiography or other directly related field to diagnostic radiology/imaging.
In addition to the experience/education above, applicants must demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSA's):
* Knowledge of basic technique standards for minimum radiographic exposure.
* Knowledge of anatomy and positioning.
* Knowledge of all patient safety procedures.
* Knowledge of radiographic producing equipment.
* Ability to learn basic computer functions

 A. I have one full year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, and I can demonstrate the above mentioned KSA's
 B. I have completed one full academic year of graduate education leading to a degree in radiography or other directly related field to Diagnostic radiology/imaging, and I can demonstrate the above mentioned KSA's.
 C. None of the above describe my qualifications.
6. To qualify at the GS-7 level: Applicants must have at least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level that demonstrates the clinical competencies described at that level; or the successful completion of one full academic year of graduate education leading to a degree in radiography or other directly related field to diagnostic radiology/imaging; or successful completion of an advanced registry program, with certification, in addition to a 4-year baccalaureate degree program in radiography or other directly related field to diagnostic radiology/imaging? Education may relate to the duties of a specific position or to the occupation but must be appropriate for the position being filled.
In addition to the education/experience, applicants must demonstrate the following KSA's:
* Knowledge of the technical adequacy of the digital image, including the ability to adjust the image quality in the digital system.
* Knowledge of different contrast material required for the requested study.
* Knowledge of radiation protection standards, minimum radiographic exposure techniques, appropriate beam limitation to anatomical area, and employing lead shielding when performing standard radiographic and fluoroscopic procedures.
* Knowledge of computed radiography, CR readers and Digital Imaging systems.
* Knowledge of PACS and basic computer skills

 A. I have at lease one full year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, and I can demonstrate the above mentioned KSA's.
 B. I have completed one full academic year of graduate education leading to a degree in radiography, and can demonstrate the above mentioned KSA's.
 C. I have successfully completed an advanced registry program, with certification, in addition to a 4-year baccalaureate degree program in radiography or other directly related field to diagnostic radiology/imaging, and I can demonstrate the above mentioned KSA's.
 D. None of the above describe my qualifications.
7. To qualify at the GS-8 level: Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level that demonstrates the clinical competencies described at that level?
In addition to the experience, applicants must demonstrate the following KSA's:
* Ability to check system for operation and assess acceptable performance based on established guidelines.
* Knowledge of calibration parameters and the ability to make adjustments as needed.
* Knowledge of patient's clinical record, diagnosis, and laboratory results.
* Ability to monitor patient's physiologic changes during the procedure and keep the radiologist informed.
* Skill in using tact, diplomacy, and courtesy in dealings with the customer base, patients, staff, family, visitors, and volunteers.
* Knowledge of anatomy and physiology, and cross-sectional anatomy, recognizing unusual images, and determining proper positioning to best demonstrate areas of interest

 A. I have at one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level and can demonstrate the above mentioned KSA's.
 B. I do not have the experience described above.
TRANSCRIPT REMINDER: If the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
RESUME: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job Title and Duties (be as detailed as possible), Month & Year - Start/End dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008), Full-Time or Part-Time status (include hours worked per week), Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected