Position Title
Physical Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTD-12825844-26-KS Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, November 3, 2025 to Thursday, November 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in working at VA Connecticut Healthcare System in our Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation service. This assessment is designed to ensure that candidates meet the basic qualifications and have the experience to meet the grade level of this vacancy. Please answer each question to confirm your eligibility.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
BASIC REQUIREMENTS-US Citizenship: Candidates must be a citizen of the United States. After a determination is made that it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens, necessary personnel may be appointed on a temporary bas under authority of 38 U.S.C. 7405 without regard to the citizenship requirements of 38 U.S.C. 7402 or any other law prohibiting the employment of or payment of compensation to a person who is not a citizen of the United States. Candidates must meet all other requirements for the grade and position concerned.

Are you a citizen of the United States of America?

 Yes
 No


2.
BASIC REQUIREMENTS-English Language Proficiency: Individuals appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C. chapters 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA must be proficient in written and spoken English. 

Are you proficient in both spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


3.
BASIC REQUIREMENTS-Education and Experience: The individual must meet at least one of the requirements below:
Bachelor's degree in Physical Therapy AND five (5) years of progressively independent experience as a physical therapist. OR
Master's degree in Physical Therapy AND two (2) years of progressively independent experience as a physical therapist. OR
Doctorate degree in Physical Therapy.

Do you meet one of the BASIC REQUIREMENTS of Education and Experience for the Physical Therapist occupation?
 Yes I possess a Bachelor's degree in Physical Therapy AND five (5) years of progressively independent experience as a physical therapist.
 Yes I possess a Master's degree in Physical Therapy AND two (2) years of progressively independent experience as a physical therapist.
 Yes I possess a Doctorate degree in Physical Therapy.
 No, I do not possess the education and/or experience required for this occupation.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
BASIC REQUIREMENTS-Licensure: Individuals must hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice physical therapy in
a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia.

Do you hold a full, current and unrestricted license to practice physical therapy in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia?

 Yes
 No


5.
Enter the state where you are licensed and your license number.

State:
License Number:



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
GRADE DETERMINATION: GS-12 Physical Therapist (Full Performance Level) Education, Experience , KSA's and Licensure: In addition to the basic requirements for education, candidates must possess one year of experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level, must hold a valid unrestricted state license and demonstrate all the KSAs below.

Experience: examples of this experience include but are not limited to: provide assessment and treatment intervention; plan and modify treatment based on a patient's response to intervention and/or change in medical condition; serve as the sole PT such as in an outpatient clinic; provide oversight and delegate patient care responsibilities to a Physical Therapist Assistant, and/or delegate non-patient care duties to non-licensed staff.

Demonstrated Knowledge Skills and Abilities:
Ability to make autonomous clinical decisions in a Direct Access environment. This includes ability to independently evaluate and treat patients who seek physical therapy services.
Skill in performing examinations and evaluations of individuals who have or may develop impairments, activity limitations, and participation restrictions related to conditions of the musculoskeletal, neuromuscular, cardiovascular, pulmonary, and/or integumentary systems while considering the effects attributable to unique psychosocial and environmental factors.
Ability to interpret findings from examination and evaluation, select appropriate test and measures, and integrate findings into the physical therapy plan of care for the full range of patient populations.
Ability to establish a diagnosis within the scope of physical therapy and identify the appropriate rehabilitation intervention, including referral to another provider for further consultation as clinically indicated.
Ability to determine physical therapy prognosis by incorporating examination findings with the patient's preferences in order to set clinically appropriate treatment goals, optimize outcomes and maximize functional independence.
Ability to independently provide clinical oversight of Physical Therapy Assistants as well as students on clinical affiliations who are in Doctoral PT Programs or PTA Programs.
Do you possess the Education, Experience , Licensure and meet all of the KSA's to be found eligible for the GS-12 Full Performance Level requirements for this occupation?
 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER: Your resume must include the following information: Full name and current contact information. Name of company and department for each position held. Job Title for each position held. Duties - As detailed as possible we cannot make assumptions. Month & Year start/end dates (e.g. June 2017 to April 2018) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Grade and Step for all federal positions. REQUIRED DOCUMENTS: Please supply all supporting documents at the time of application to ensure that you are credited with your education, experience and licensure so that we are able to determine your eligibility. Federal employees must also provide a copy of their most recent SF-50 showing their status as a federal employee. You will not be contacted to provide additional documentation.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙