Position Title
ELECTRONIC INTEGRATED SYSTEMS MECHANIC
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
ID-12750332-AF-3497 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, July 18, 2025 to Monday, July 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Current Army M-Day and current Air DSG members within the state for which you are applying.  Are you a current Army M-Day or current Air DSG member within the state for which this position is being advertised?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. US Citizens.  Are you a US Citizen?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
12
13
2. Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Please answer the following question/(s):
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Your resume must include start and end dates (MONTH AND YEAR) for each position listed to receive credit for specialized experience.

Examples:

From 2002 to 2004 I was a crew chief. (NO)

From Mar 2002 to Oct 2004 I served as the crew chief on a C-130 where I used testing equipment to troubleshoot malfunctions with systems. I repaired, maintained, serviced, inspected, and modified systems on the aircraft daily in the performance of my job. I use tech orders and manufacturers drawings and diagrams to determine proper maintenance procedures on assigned aircraft. (YES)

Does your resume reflect both month and year?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. General Experience: Experience or training which demonstrates the applicant's knowledge to perform duties such as, install, modify, overhaul, maintain, troubleshoot, repair, align, calibrate, and rebuild multi-system avionics complexes. Ability to collect and analyze data effectively, efficiently, and accurately. Able to apply procedures and directives by reading and interpreting material. Ability to communicate clearly and effectively. Applicant must have a validated understanding of the basic principles and concepts of the occupational series and grade.

Specialized Experience:  

WG-12 - Experience or training demonstrating the ability to repair, align, and adjust major integrated electronic systems such as inertial navigation system, automatic flight control, or fire control system. Extensive knowledge of electronic, pneumatic, hydraulic, and mechanical systems in order to understand and predict the progressive effects of malfunctions throughout the interrelated units, (e.g., trace an apparent operating error in the hydraulic controls of a gun mount back to the failure of a tactical computer to integrate yaw, pitch, azimuth, and velocity inputs) and to predict areas of technical difficulty in order to assist lower grade employees. Through knowledge of the application of electronic theories and practices to one or more complex integrated systems such as fire control, inertial navigation, or automatic landing control systems. Broad knowledge of such applications as radar, digital or analog computers, digital or cathode ray tube display devices, etc., and specific knowledge of the technology and practices which integrate these components into a total functional system. Knowledge of mathematics including algebra and basic trigonometric functions in order to adapt standard formulas to the specific requirements of the integrated system. Ability to follow drawings for integrated electronic systems such as radar navigation systems which integrate terrain information from the radar, pitch, roll, and turn rate, etc. from sensing devices and actuate control relays. Ability to trace the effect of a change in one subsystem to other integrated subsystems and determine which controls and devices must be changed or adjusted to compensate. Ability to diagnose and determine needed repairs for malfunctions in electronics systems such as weapons control where knowledge of the entire system is necessary to interpret error data and trace back through a number of units of the system to locate the deficiency.

WG-13 and above: WG-13 and above - Experience or training demonstrating the ability to repair, overhaul, rebuild, align, and adjust complete multi-systems such as the electronics package in a highly automated aircraft where target acquisition and tracking, weapons control, aircraft attitude control, navigation, and other complex functions are performed by numerous systems which are extensively interconnected with data feedback loops. Applies comprehensive knowledge of all major units of the complete multisystem, i.e., how they function independently, how they are interfaced in the integrated subsystems, and how the subsystems interact to achieve operating specifications. Able to determine proper sequence of operations and start point in sequential operations in order to pinpoint areas of malfunction. Extensive practical knowledge of the theories and practices of electromagnetic propagation, electronic circuits, computer theory, hydraulic or pneumatic control and power systems, and many other areas covering a wide range of system applications. Broad knowledge of the interactions among a number of closely integrated complex systems. Knowledge of mathematics, including trigonometry, to calculate power relation ships, signal phasing, etc. Ability to interpret drawings for multisystem complexes such as the complete electronics package for an aircraft including numerous interconnections of signal paths both between and within individual subsystems of the multisystem complex. Ability to isolate malfunctions of complete multiple integrated systems consisting of closely interrelated fire control, bombing-navigation, flight control, countermeasures or similar systems and to determine the methods of repair where extremely complex relationships exist among numerous interconnected units and control circuits not only within the individual control systems but between them as well, requiring complete knowledge of all electronic, mechanical, and or optical systems and units. Performs on-equipment or off-equipment maintenance on one or more complete electronic integrated systems associated with the assigned aircraft, and/or maintenance on automatic flight control systems, instrument systems, inertial and radar navigation systems.

To ensure full credit is given for the qualification requirements you will need to be specific with your experience and write it in terms that the Human Resource Specialist can easily understand (please refrain from using acronyms).  Include both military and civilian experience (credit is applied for both your military and civilian jobs, except for overlapping periods).  Please include any MOS/AFSC that you hold/held and the dates they were obtained.

Do you meet these requirements and does your resume reflect the specialized experience listed above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. To be eligible for this position, you must currently hold a rank within the pay grades of E-1 through E-7.

Do you currently hold a rank within the pay grades provided?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected