Position Title
Operations Business Director
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
25-DO-12781018 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 18, 2025 to Monday, September 1, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current Treasury Department employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current Treasury employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current Treasury employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current Department of Treasury employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other
3. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
4. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
6. Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.
7. Which of the following describes your eligibility for this announcement?
 A. I am a current permanent Department of Treasury employee with competitive status.
 B. I am a Department of Treasury employee serving on a Veterans' Recruitment Appointment (VRA).
 C. I am an individual eligible for the Department of Treasury Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP).
 D. I do not meet any of the above criteria.
8. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Specialized experience for the GS-15: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service.
Specialized experience for this position includes all of the following:
- Developing and managing employees' professional development; AND
- Formulating goals and developing strategies to achieve the desired operational outcomes; AND
- Formulating and executing program budgets; AND
- Evaluating programs effectiveness, including the use of metrics and providing recommendations for continuous improvement.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you have one (1) year of specialized experience as described above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Please state the specific resume reference(s) where the experience may be found. (limit 250 characters)
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. Do you have experience leading customer service operations including coaching managers on leadership, management and process improvement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Please describe that experience in 250 words or less. (limit 250 characters)
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. Do you have experience developing innovative proposals and policy to achieve operational sustainability?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Please describe that experience in 250 words or less. (limit 250 characters)
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
7. Do you have experience proposing strategies for succession planning including developing potential leaders for greater responsibilities?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Please describe that experience in 250 words or less. (limit 250 characters)
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
9. Do you have experience as a manager with change management?
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Please describe that experience in 250 words or less. (limit 250 characters)
11. I have experience identifying, analyzing, and resolving problems while working with other managers, including senior level management.
 A. True
 B. False
12. Select the statement(s) that describe your experience managing projects.
 A. Develop plans and schedules
 B. Estimate resource requirements
 C. Define milestones and deliverables
 D. Monitor activities, track progress and stay on course to meet or beat deadlines
 E. Evaluate and report on accomplishments
 F. None of the above
13. Select the statement(s) that describe your ability to analyze, interpret, and make recommendations.
 A. I have analyzed program data, information, policies and/or procedures.
 B. I have analyzed data, information, policies and/or procedures related to leadership and program management.
 C. I have analyzed intricate, technically conflicting, or ambiguous data, information, policies and/or procedures related to leadership and executive learning and development.
 D. I have interpreted and drawn conclusions from general data, information, policies and/or procedures.
 E. I have interpreted and drawn conclusions from data, information, policies and/or procedures on program and project management.
 F. I have interpreted and drawn conclusions from intricate, technically conflicting or ambiguous data, information, policies and/or procedures on leadership and executive learning and development.
 G. I have made recommendations based on general data, information, policies, and/or procedures.
 H. I have made recommendations regarding regulatory or program resource allocations.
 I. I have never worked in a position requiring these qualifications.
14. Indicate which of the following that you have developed:
 A. Strategic plans
 B. Project plans
 C. Budget formulation
 D. Business cases
 E. Resource estimates for staff levels, funding, contract support and/or equipment
 F. Management reports and briefings
 G. Performance measures
 H. Statements of work, sole source justifications, independent government cost estimates, market research
 I. None of the above
15. Which of the following describes the experience you have developing future leaders?
 A. Developing long-range strategies and contingency plans for operational success.
 B. Interviewing potential candidates and assessing their knowledge, skills and abilities.
 C. Awarding promotions based on law, policy and merit.
 D. Evaluating potential disciplinary and promotion actions equitably.
 E. Handling personnel matters discretely and fairly.
 F. Promoting and engaging actively in professional development activities.
 G. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
16. Do you have experience overseeing substantial program changes due to legislation, and/or funding sources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
17. Which of the following best describes your experience?
 A. I have conducted discussions as a representative for the agency/organization in which the purpose was to influence, motivate, or persuade persons or groups. I had to use my communication skills to approach individuals or groups who are skeptical or in disagreement in order to obtain the desired effect, e.g., gaining compliance with an established policy or regulation.
 B. I have participated in discussions to plan, coordinate, or consult on work efforts or to resolve event related issues. I influenced or motivated individuals or groups working toward mutual goals, and they had cooperative attitudes.
 C. I have experience and training that demonstrates effectiveness in dealing with internal customers and external service providers. This includes experience to acquire, clarify or exchange facts and information needed to complete assignments.
 D. None of the above.
18. Select the statement(s) that best describe your experience representing your agency or large bureau in briefings, meetings, or conferences with strategic partners within and outside the agency.
 A. I have periodically attended interagency committee meetings with a senior official.
 B. I have represented my organization at briefings, meetings or conferences with other interested parties (e.g., peers, colleagues, and/or members of professional organizations) to share information.
 C. I have represented my organization actively at conferences, seminars, and workshops to ensure that senior managements concerns, viewpoints, and interests are effectively represented.
 D. I have chaired internal agency advisory groups and committees to communicate, facilitate and explain policy matters within an agency or large bureau.
 E. I have delivered specific technical information or assistance at conferences, seminars and workshops to support effective decision-making.
 F. None of the above.
19. Select the statement that best describes your experience working with and building relationships with Executives:
 A. I have routinely worked with and built strong, lasting relationships with Executives.
 B. I have worked closely with a few Executives and built a strong relationship with them.
 C. I have worked with Executives on occasion.
 D. None of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected