Position Title
Food & Beverage Manager - Shenanigan's, PMRF
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25449 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, August 5, 2025 to Tuesday, August 19, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you reside within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position?

The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 A. Yes, I reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
 B. No, I do not reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
3. I am willing and able to travel away from my duty location.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I am willing and able to wear a prescribed uniform while performing duties of this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. I am willing and able to acquire professional job-related certifications with the time frame specified in the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
7. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
8. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
9. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
10. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
11. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of Navy Non-appropriated Funds (NAF), Food & Beverage department at the Pacific Missile Range Facility in Barking Sands, HI (island of Kaua'i). This questionnaire is a requirement for your application package and answers must be supported by your resume and/or additional documentation as necessary. The resume and supporting documents your provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. Please ensure you read the questions thoroughly and review your responses for accuracy before you submit your assessment. Failure to respond to the question(s) wil result in an ineligible rating.
1. How many years of experience do you have assigning work, conducting performance reviews and conducting disciplinary actions, participating in staffing decisions, ensuring employees receive proper training, and directly supervising employees?
 A. I do not have any experience performing this activity, but I'm willing to learn.
 B. I have 1-3 years of experience performing this activity.
 C. I have 4-5 years of experience performing this activity.
 D. I have 6+ years of experience performing this activity.
2. Please select the statement that most accurately describes how many years of experience with culinary arts, operational management of food, beverage, and catering programs you currently have.
 A. I do not have any experience performing the actions stated, but I am willing to learn.
 B. I have 1-3 years of experience in performing the actions stated above.
 C. I have 4-5 years of experience in performing the actions stated above.
 D. I have 6+ years of experience in performing the actions stated above.
3. Please select the statement that most accurately describes how many years of experience you have in communicating effectively both orally and in writing.
 A. I do not have any experience performing the actions above.
 B. I have 1-3 years of experience performing the actions above.
 C. I have 4-5 years of experience in performing the actions above.
 D. I have 6+ years of experience in performing the actions above.
4. Please select the statement that most accurately describes how many years of experience you have with developing an income, expense, and capital expenditure budget.
 A. I do not have any experience performing the tasks listed above.
 B. I have 1-3 years of experience performing the tasks listed above.
 C. I have 4-5 years of experience in performing the tasks listed above.
 D. I have 6+ years of experience in performing the tasks listed above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected