Position Title
Training Specialist
Agency
Office of the Secretary of the Interior
Announcement Number
OS-6054-25-AI-106(MP) Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 12, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.

Do you wish to be considered as a 30% or more disabled veteran?
Under this authority, an agency may appoint, without competition, an eligible disabled veteran to a term or temporary appointment in the Federal service.  In appropriate circumstances, a person receiving a temporary or term appointment under this authority may be converted to a permanent competitive service appointment.When using this authority to appoint on a permanent basis, you are first placed on a time limited appointment of at least 60 days and then converted to a permanent appointment at management's discretion.

To be eligible for a 30% or more disabled appointment, you must be the following:

Retired from active military service with a disability rating of 30 percent or more; or
Rated by the Department of Veterans' Affairs (VA) as having a compensable, service-connected disability of 30 percent or more.

To claim eligibility under 30% or more disabled, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

If you are claiming eligibility based on 30% or more service connected disability, you are required to submit documentation that is indicated on the SF-15 as acceptable proof of verification of your preference (i.e., official document, dated 1991 or later, from the Department of Veterans Affairs, or from a branch of the Armed Forces, certifying that the veterans total combined serviced-connected disability rating is 30% or more.

For more information on veteran hiring authorities, please click here

 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

Do you wish to be considered under CTAP?
To be eligible for Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP), a person must:

Be a current or former permanent competitive status DOI federal employee displaced from a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy with a current (or last) performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To claim eligibility under CTAP, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

Copies of the appropriate documentation which includes:

Reduction in force (RIF) separation notice;
SF-50 reflecting your RIF separation, or a notice of proposed removal for declining a directed reassignment or transfer of function to another commuting area;
You MUST also submit documentation to reflect your current (or last) performance rating of record.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Were you employed overseas as an Appropriated Fund employee AND did you:

• complete 52 weeks of creditable overseas service in an appropriated fund position(s) as a family member during the time you accompanied a sponsor officially assigned to an overseas area; AND,
• receive a fully successful or better (or equivalent) performance rating;
AND,
• return to the United States to resume residence less than 3 years ago?

For more information, review USAJOBS Former Overseas Employees resources. USAJOBS Former Overseas Employees resources. 

 To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, and performance appraisal.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5.

Do you wish to be considered under Merit Promotion?
To be eligible under competitive merit promotion, you must be:

A current or former (reinstatement eligible) permanent Federal civilian employee under a competitive career or career-conditional appointment.

To claim eligibility under competitive merit promotion, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

A copy of your most recent SF-50 reflecting current position information and competitive status (SF-50 box #24 - 1 or 2, box #34 - 1), AND if the most recent SF-50 does not show your highest grade held, then you MUST also submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis (No award 50's will be accepted).
 A. Yes
 B. No
6.

Do you wish to be considered under ICTAP?
To be eligible for Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP), a person must:

Be a current or former permanent competitive status federal employee displaced from a position in a non-DOI federal agency (e.g., IRS, VA, Department of Labor, etc.) in the same local commuting area of the vacancy with a current (or last) performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To claim eligibility under ICTAP, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

Copies of the appropriate documentation which includes:

Reduction in force (RIF) separation notice;
SF-50 reflecting your RIF separation, or a notice of proposed removal for declining a directed reassignment or transfer of function to another commuting area;
You MUST also submit documentation to reflect your current (or last) performance rating of record.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7.

Do you wish to be considered under an OPM Interchange Agreement or a Miscellaneous Authority not regulated by OPM?
Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management?

To be eligible for career or career-conditional appointment under an OPM Interchange Agreement, a person must:

Be currently serving under an appointment without time limit in another merit system or have been involuntarily separated from such appointment without personal cause within the preceding year; AND
Be currently serving in or have been involuntarily separated from a position covered by an interchange agreement (some agreements do not cover all positions of the other merit systems); AND
Have served continuously for at least 1 year in the other merit system prior to appointment under the interchange agreement.

To claim eligibility under an Interchange Agreement, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

A copy of your most recent SF-50 reflecting current position information and type of appointment; AND
Documentation that you have served in the other merit system for at least one year.

For more information on Interchange Agreements, please click here

-OR- 
Are you a current or former Foreign Service employee?
-OR-
Are you a current:
• Postal Career Service Employee;
• Postal Rate Commission Employee;
• Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; or
• Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee

For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status.

 A. Yes
 B. No
8.

Do you wish to be considered under Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA)?
If you're a current or former Land Management employee (Land management agencies include The Department of Agriculture's Forest Service, The Department of Interior's Bureau of Land Management, National Park Service, Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Reclamation), who worked in a term or temporary job, you may be eligible to apply to merit promotion jobs at any federal agency.

Two groups of individuals are potentially eligible for appointment, including current and/or former employees serving or served under time-limited competitive appointments at land management agencies (as defined above). Land Management Eligibles (LME's) must meet the following eligibility criteria:

• Current land management agency appointees:

must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under one (1) or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two (2) or more years, and
must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.
must meet time in grade requirements.

• Former land management agency appointees:

must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under one (1) or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two (2) or more years,
must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s),
must apply for a position covered by these provisions within two (2) years after their most recent date of separation, and
must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.
must meet time in grade requirements.

Note: A former employee, who otherwise meets the requirements for eligibility, shall be deemed an employee of the agency from which the former employee was most recently separated.

To claim eligibility under the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA), you must submit the following documentation with your application:

SF-50(s) showing the above criteria
Employee Performance Appraisal (Employee Performance Ratings or equivalent)

For more information the LMWFA, please click here

 A. Yes
 B. No
9.

Do you wish to be considered as a Military Spouse?
To be eligible for appointment under this authority, you must be the spouse of one of the following:

Active Duty Spouse:

Includes all spouses of members of the armed forces on active duty
Spouses do not have to relocate with active duty spouse

Based on 100% Disability: As a military spouse, you may be eligible to be considered under this authority if:

The military member was retired under Chapter 61 of title 10, United States Code with a 100% disability rating from the military; or
Was released from active duty and has a disability rating of 100% from the Department of Veterans' Affairs or the military department.

Note: There is no geographic limitation under this category. You will be required to provide documentation of your spouse's disability.

Based on Service Member's Death: As the military spouse, you may be eligible if the military member was killed while on active duty (it does not have to be combat related), and you have not remarried.

Note: There is no geographic limitation in this category. You will be required to provide documentation on the death of the spouse and your marital status at the time of death.

Documentation Required: To confirm eligibility the hiring agency must verify the individual has a valid marriage certificate or other documentation verifying marriage (such as any official documentation verifying a recognized common law marriage). In addition, the service member's spouse must be authorized on the military orders assigning the service member to a certain post.  To verify this, please submit a copy of your marriage license, the military orders regarding the PCS move, documentation of disability as outlined above (if applicable), or documentation that the service member was killed while on active duty (and you are not remarried) (if applicable).

 A. Yes
 B. No
10.

Do you wish to be considered under National Service (Peace Corps and VISTA)?
Former Peace Corps Volunteers:  Under this authority, a former Peace Corps volunteer who recently completed his/her volunteer service may be appointed without competition to a permanent position in the Federal competitive service.

To be eligible for appointment under this authority, you must have satisfactorily completed your volunteer service in the Peace Corps within the past year.
To claim eligibility, you must provide a letter from the Peace Corps indicating the beginning and end dates of your volunteer service, certifying that you served satisfactorily.

Former Peace Corps Employees:  Under this authority, a former Peace Corps employee (other than a volunteer) who recently completed at least 36 months of continuous service with the Peace Corps may be appointed without competition to a permanent appointment in the Federal competitive service.

To be eligible for appointment under this authority, you must have satisfactorily completed no less than 36 months of continuous service in the Peace Corps within the past three years.
To claim eligibility, you must provide a letter from the Peace Corps indicating the beginning and end dates of your service as an employee of the Peace Corps, certifying that you served satisfactorily.
 A. Yes
 B. No
11.

Do you wish to be considered under Non-Competitive Merit Promotion?

To be eligible under non-competitive merit promotion, you must be:

A Current or former (reinstatement eligible) competitive, career/career-conditional Federal employee who has previously competed for, held, or currently holds, the full performance level of the position you are applying.

To claim eligibility under non-competitive merit promotion, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

A copy of your most recent or past SF-50 in order to verify your claim for non-competitive eligibility. If the most recent SF-50 does not show your highest grade competed for or held, then you MUST also submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis.
 A. Yes
 B. No
12.

Are you eligible for conversion from a Pathways Internship?
This authority allows for current Pathways Interns that have completed all Pathways program requirements to be non-competitively converted to a permanent or Term position in the competitive service.

To be eligible for non-competitive conversion from a Pathways Intern position, a person must:

Must be a U.S. Citizen
Be within the 180-day conversion time-frame from the date their degree, career, or technical education program requirements are conferred;
Completed at least 480 hours of work experience acquired through the Internship Program while enrolled full-time or part-time;
Completed their degree, career, or technical education program requirements;
Meet the qualification standards for the position to which the Intern will be converted;
Meet agency-specific requirements as specified in the Participant's Agreement; and,
Maintain acceptable performance under the agency's approved performance management system.
Receive favorable recommendation for conversion from supervisor.
Indefinite Interns must have a completed IDP.
 

To claim eligibility for non-competitive conversion under a Pathways Intern appointment, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

Copies of the appropriate documentation including:

Transcripts with degree date, unofficial will be accepted, however official transcripts will be required prior to a final job offer;
Current pathways agreement;
a favorable recommendation for conversion from the work experience supervisor;
Current SF-50 showing Pathways status.
 A. Yes
 B. No
13.

Do you wish to be considered under Schedule A?
To be eligible under Schedule A, you must be:

A candidate with a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.  Under this authority, a person with severe physical or mental disabilities may be appointed without competition to an excepted service position on a temporary or non-temporary basis. Upon completion of two years of satisfactory service under a non-temporary Schedule A appointment, the appointee may be converted to a permanent appointment in the competitive service. *** Please note: This authority cannot be used for Pathways positions.

To claim eligibility under Schedule A, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

A certification statement/proof of disability from a state Vocational Rehabilitation Service (state or private), Department of Veterans Affairs, a licensed medical professional, or any Federal agency, State agency or agency of the District of Columbia or U. S. territory that issues or provides disability benefits.  Note: Certification Statement/Proof of disability (i.e., a record, statement, or other appropriate documentation confirming a severe physical, mental, or psychiatric disability) issued by a licensed medical professional, a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist, or any Federal or State agency that issues or provides disability benefits.
 A. Yes
 B. No
14.

Do you wish to be considered under Public Land Corp (PLC)?
To be eligible for a Public Land Corp (PLC) appointment:

The candidate must have completed his/her most recent Corp service, which provided him/her with a total of 640 hours, inclusive of 120 hours on a PLC project as defined in 16 USC 1723(d), within the last two (2) years.  The candidate must between the ages of 16-30 (inclusive).

To claim eligibility under Public Land Corp (PLC), you must submit the following documentation with your application:

A copy of the "Certificate of Eligibility for Non-competitive Hiring Status (PLC), signed by a bureau PLC Coordinator.

 A. Yes
 B. No
15.

Do you wish to be considered under VEOA?
The VEOA allows veterans' preference eligibles and other veterans who have been separated from the armed forces under honorable conditions to apply and be considered for certain vacancies that are otherwise open only to status or reinstatement-eligible applicants outside of DOI.

To be eligible under VEOA, you must be one of the following:

A veterans' preference eligible; or
A veteran who was separated from the armed forces after substantially completing three or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions (this means an honorable or general discharge).

To claim eligibility under VEOA, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

A copy of your DD-214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," preferably the Member 4 copy, showing the dates of active duty, type of discharge, and character of service (must be honorable; (this means an honorable or general discharge).

Note for Active duty service members expecting to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions within 120 days: you may be granted tentative preference by submitting a "certification" document in lieu of a Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD 214.  A "certification" is any written document from the armed forces that certifies the service member is expected to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions within 120 days after the certification is submitted by the applicant.

If you are claiming eligibility based on 10-point veterans' preference (CPS, CP, XP), you are required to submit documentation that is indicated on the SF-15 as acceptable proof of verification of your preference (i.e., official document, dated 1991 or later, from the Department of Veterans Affairs, or from a branch of the Armed Forces, certifying that the veterans total combined serviced-connected disability rating is 10% or more.
 A. Yes
 B. No
16.

Do you wish to be considered under VRA?
Under VRA, an agency may hire eligible veterans without competition up to the GS-11 grade level. Upon satisfactory completion of two years of service in a VRA appointment, the appointee must be converted to a permanent appointment in the Federal competitive service.To be eligible for a VRA appointment, you must have been separated from the armed forces under honorable conditions (this means an honorable or general discharge) and be one of the following:

A Disabled veteran;
A Veteran who served on active duty in the Armed Forces during a war, or in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge has been authorized;
A Veteran who, while serving on active duty in the Armed Forces, participated in a United States military operation for which an Armed Forces Service Medal was awarded; or
A recently separated veterans (within 3 years).

To claim eligibility under VRA, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

Your DD-214(s) (reflecting character of service and type of discharge).
If you are claiming eligibility based on 10-point veterans' preference (CPS, CP), you are required to submit documentation that is indicated on the SF-15 as acceptable proof of verification of your preference (i.e., official document, dated 1991 or later, from the Department of Veterans Affairs, or from a branch of the Armed Forces, certifying that the veterans total combined serviced-connected disability rating is 10% or more.
 A. Yes
 B. No
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
17. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
18. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
19. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
20. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
21. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Anchorage, AK
 B. Fairbanks, AK
 C. Boise, ID
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
11
12
3. It is your responsibility to ensure that your resume and correct documents are uploaded and received. Please, verify during the application process on the "application review page" that you have uploaded the appropriate documentation as stated in the required documents section of the vacancy announcement. No documentation will be accepted after the closing date of the announcement. I understand that it is my responsibility that I must submit a resume and all required supporting documentation prior to the closing date of the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. What attracted you to this position?
 A. Service as a Civil Servant
 B. Government Benefits
 C. Salary
 D. Work Schedule Flexibility
 E. Downturn in Non-Federal Job Market
 F. Job Stability
 G. Office Location
 H. Other
5. If you have ever held a Federal position please indicate your pay plan, highest grade held, and dates held below (e.g. GS-13; 08/15/11 - 08/15/12). If applying based on noncompetitive eligibility and if you do not have prior Federal service, please type "N/A" in the text box below. (limit 100 characters)
6. Applicants who apply under this job opportunity announcement have the option to have their application, associated documents and applicable personal information shared with other Bureaus/Offices within the Department of the Interior (DOI) that have vacancies within the same occupational series, grade, promotion potential and in the same geographic location(s), including within the same metro/commuting area. Applying to this announcement does not replace the need to apply to other job opportunity announcements for which you wish to receive consideration. If you select "yes", your information could potentially be shared with other bureaus if there is a need to fill another position. If you select "no", your information will NOT be shared with other bureaus. Do you agree to have your information shared with other bureaus?
 A. Yes, I would like my information shared with other bureaus.
 B. No, I would not like my information shared with other bureaus.
Assessment 1
Please note that you will only be considered for the eligibility option(s) for which you select. You may select more than one option of consideration, if applicable. If the required documentation is not received by the closing date of the announcement, you will be found ineligible for the position and will be removed from further review. A resume is required for ALL consideration options.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. I certify that I have read each of the referral eligibilities identified in this announcement and I have selected the eligibility or eligibilities that I wish to be considered. I understand that failure to identify an eligibility or eligibilities will result in loss of consideration for this announcement. I understand that I must submit all required documentation to verify my eligibility by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Thank you for your interest in this vacancy. Please select the response that best reflects how you meet the qualification requirements for this position.
2. The Training Instruction Series (1712) has a Basic Occupational Requirement: Select the statement that most closely matches your Education and/or Experience as defined in the vacancy announcement.

 A. I have an Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- education or a subject area related to the position to be filled.
 B. I have Specialized Experience that demonstrates a practical knowledge of the subject area of the position and of the methods and techniques of instruction. Examples of qualifying Specialized Experience include: Teaching or instructing in an adult education program, secondary school, college, military installation, or industrial establishment in the appropriate field(s); Supervising or administering a training program; Development or review of training/course materials, aids, devices, etc., and evaluation of training results; Work in the occupation or subject-matter field of the position to be filled that required training or instructing others on a regular basis.
 C. None of the above.
3. Select the statement that most closely matches how you meet the specialized experience for the GW-11 grade level as stated in the vacancy announcement.
 A. I possess at least one year of Specialized Experience equivalent to at least the GW-09 level as described in the vacancy announcement, and it is clearly written in my resume.
 B. I possess 3 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or LL.M, if related.
 C. I possess a combination of graduate level education beyond the first 2 years of progressive graduate study and appropriate experience that together meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position.
 D. I possess LESS THAN one year of Specialized Experience equivalent to at least the GW-09 level as described in the vacancy announcement, and it is clearly written in my resume.
 E. None of the above accurately reflects my qualifications.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to at least the GW-09 grade level conducting training sessions using established curriculum?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to at least the GW-09 grade level developing training materials?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to at least the GW-09 grade level utilizing web-based tools and equipment to present training materials?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to at least the GW-09 grade level collaborating in a team environment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Select the statement that most closely matches how you meet the specialized experience for the GW-12 grade level as stated in the vacancy announcement.
 A. I possess at least one year of Specialized Experience equivalent to at least the GW-11 level as described in the vacancy announcement, and it is clearly written in my resume.
 B. I possess LESS THAN one year of Specialized Experience equivalent to at least the GW-11 level as described in the vacancy announcement, and it is clearly written in my resume.
 C. None of the above accurately reflects my qualifications.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
9. Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to at least the GW-11 grade level conducting training session using an established curriculum?
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to at least the GW-11 grade level developing training materials, curriculum, aids, devices, and course evaluations?
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to at least the GW-11 grade level collaborating in a team environment to create training objectives and supporting materials to be presented?
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to at least the GW-11 grade level utilizing web-based tools and equipment to develop and present training materials?
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. What does the "A" in the acronym ADDIE stand for in instructional design?
 A. Assign
 B. Analyze
 C. Attitude
 D. Apply
14. What does the acronym SME stand for in training development?
 A. Subject Matter Expert
 B. Small-to-Medium Enterprise
 C. Storage Media Encryption
 D. None of the Above
15. Which of the following is NOT a component of a SMART learning objective?
 A. Specific
 B. Measurable
 C. Relevant
 D. Reliable
 E. Targeted
16. According to Bloom's Taxonomy (1984) what is the highest level of learning?
 A. Remember
 B. Understand
 C. Apply
 D. Create
17. Which statement correctly identifies an important interpersonal skill for a trainer to possess, and why is it crucial for student success?


 A. Active listening, because it helps the trainer absorb the student's questions and feedback, enabling them to tailor their instruction to the student's specific needs and challenges.
 B. Charisma, because it makes the trainer more likable, which encourages students to attend more classes and complete their assignments on time.
 C. Assertiveness, because it allows the trainer to maintain strict control of the classroom, ensuring all students follow the rules and procedures without question.
 D. Patience, because it prevents the trainer from getting frustrated when a student makes the same mistake repeatedly, saving time and avoiding conflicts.
18. A student, who has a fear of water, is struggling with confidence and trust in the water ditching and egress procedures  training. Which interpersonal skill is most crucial for the trainer to demonstrate in this situation, and why?

 A. Adaptability, because it allows the trainer to quickly change the training plan to avoid topics that cause the student distress.
 B. Empathy, because it allows the trainer to understand and validate the student's fear, creating a safe and supportive environment for them to confront their anxieties.
 C. Authoritativeness, because it enables the trainer to assert their expertise and reassure the student that the aircraft is safe under their command.
 D. Assertiveness, because it helps the trainer push the student to complete the simulation, which is the only way for the student to overcome their fear.
19. Which of the following best describes the core purpose of a project manager's communication plan, and why is it essential for the success of a project?
 A. To dictate all project-related decisions from a single source, ensuring consistency and preventing unauthorized changes.
 B. To establish a schedule for all team meetings and report submissions, thereby guaranteeing that deadlines are met.
 C. To identify who needs what information, when they need it, and how they will receive it, ensuring all stakeholders are aligned and informed.
 D. To document all project risks and mitigation strategies, allowing the team to prepare for any potential setbacks.
20. A project manager is tasked with a new project. During the initial planning phase, a key stakeholder requests a new feature that was not part of the original scope. What is the most appropriate action for the project manager to take, and why is this action crucial for the project's success?
 A. Immediately add the new feature to the project scope to ensure stakeholder satisfaction and a positive working relationship.
 B. Inform the stakeholder that the request cannot be accommodated because the project scope is already defined and cannot be changed.
 C. Evaluate the impact of the new feature on the project's timeline, budget, and resources, and then discuss the potential trade-offs and implications with the stakeholder.
 D. Add the new feature to the project's backlog for a future phase, so the current project can stay on schedule.
This position is designated as a Non-Sensitive/Moderate Risk position. It requires a fully completed and favorably adjudicated Public Trust Suitability Background Investigation (T2S or T2RS or equivalent) that is current (within the last 5 years). This is a condition of employment.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
21. Are you willing to undergo a comprehensive background investigation which includes, but is not limited to, contact with all references, employers, co-workers, personal associates, and a review of your driving record, credit history, criminal history, and military service?
 A. Yes
 B. No
22. During the last 7 years, have you been under any investigations?

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected