Position Title
Histopathology Technician (Advanced)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-12817192-26-CEB Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 17, 2025 to Friday, October 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Histopathology Technician, Advanced, GS-0646-07, position with the Department of Veterans Affairs. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. This section addresses the basic qualifications for this vacancy announcement.

Select "Yes" or "No" to the following question(s).


1.

ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY: Histopathology Technicians must be proficient in spoken and written English. Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes. I am proficient in spoken and written English.
 No. I am not proficient in spoken and written English. I understand that I am not eligible for this position.


2.
PRE-EMPLOYMENT EXAMINATION: Applicants must undergo a pre-employment examination and be medically suitable to perform the essential duties of the Histopathology Technician position efficiently and without hazard to themselves and others. Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment medical examination?
 Yes. I am willing to undergo a pre-employment medical examination.
 No. I am not willing to undergo a pre-employment medical examination. I understand that I am not eligible for this position.


3.
3. Required
BASIC REQUIREMENTS:

EXPERIENCE/EDUCATION: Histopathology Technician candidates must meet one of the following requirements:

Experience. One year of experience in a health care field that demonstrates the applicant's ability to perform the work or provides an understanding of the work such as but not limited to a medical or clinical laboratory assistant (or technician) or health technician. OR,

Education
(a) Four academic years above high school leading to a bachelor's degree with courses related to the occupation such as biological science or chemistry; or
(b) Successful completion of two academic years of study above high school that included at least 24 semester hours in Chemistry and/or in appropriate fields of biological science and successful completion of a 12-month program of education and training in histopathology or cytotechnology. OR,

Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combination of experience and education are qualifying for entry level for which both education and experience are acceptable. Examples are listed below:
(a) Six months of experience in the health care field and two years of education above high school that included at least six semester hours in health care related courses such as biological science, surgical technician courses or other courses related to the position; or an associate's degree in a health care related field.
(b) Six months of experience in the health care field and successful completion of a course for health care technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or histopathology technicians given by the U.S. Armed Forces.

Do you meet one of these education requirements?
 Yes. I have completed one year of experience in a health care field that demonstrates the applicant's ability to perform the work or provides an understanding of the work such as but not limited to a medical or clinical laboratory assistant (or technician) or health technician.
 Yes. I have completed four academic years above high school leading to a bachelor's degree with courses related to the occupation such as biological science or chemistry. I have provided a copy of my transcripts to support my answer.
 Yes. I have completed two academic years of study above high school that included at least 24 semester hours in Chemistry and/or in appropriate fields of biological science and successful completion of a 12-month program of education and training in histopathology or cytotechnology. I have provided a copy of my transcripts to support my answer.
 Yes. I have completed an equivalent combination of experience and education.
 No. I do not meet any of the education and/or experience requirements mentioned above. I understand that I am not eligible for this position.


Grandfathering Provision. All Histopathology Technicians employed in VHA in this occupation on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series, and grade held. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements required in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it, the following provisions apply:

(1) Such employees in an occupation that does not require a licensure/certification/registration, may be reassigned, promoted, or demoted within the occupation.
(2) Employees who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed, on a temporary or permanent basis, until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard.
(3) If an employee who was retained (grandfathered) under this provision leaves that occupation, the employee loses protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of reentry to the occupation.


4.

EXPERIENCE FOR GS-07: Candidates must have one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level. Do you have one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level?
 Yes. I possess one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level.
 No. I do not possess one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level. I understand that I am not eligible for this position.


5.
KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, AND ABILITIES (KSAs) FOR GS-7: In addition to the experience above, candidates must document examples in their resume demonstrating all of the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):

(a) Skill in applying professional, complex anatomic pathology principles, practices, concepts, and theories in performing new or difficult specialized testing methods or techniques.
(b) Ability to provide technical oversight of laboratory quality control and assurance procedures and principles of performance improvement exhibiting competence in managing reagent and supply inventories and document control systems.
(c) Ability to validate methodologies, operate anatomic pathology laboratory equipment and perform complex instrument troubleshooting.
(d) Ability to use independent technical judgment to analyze and evaluate laboratory results and resolve problems.

Have you documented examples in your resume demonstrating the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) mentioned above?
 Yes. I have documented examples in my resume demonstrating the KSAs mentioned above.
 No. I have not documented examples in my resume demonstrating the KSAs mentioned above. I understand that I am not eligible for this position.



ALL INFORMATION MUST BE CURRENT AND ALL DOCUMENTS MUST BE SIGNED WITHIN THE LAST 6 MONTHS!



FEDERAL EMPLOYEE: SF-50 Reminder: Most recent SF-50 if you are a current or former Federal employee. Award 50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted.



TRANSCRIPTS REMINDER: If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.



Application Package Notification & Important Information: It is our goal to forward every eligible and qualified candidate for consideration. Due to the nature of our systems, it is imperative that your application package be accurate and complete. Therefore, prior to finalizing your application package and submitting for consideration: Ensure all documents are appropriately selected, are legible, and have uploaded successfully (we recommend viewing them a second time to ensure no errors have occurred in the process). Missing documents may cause your application package to be ineligible for consideration. Ensure that all responses to the assessment questions are accurate and correctly reflect your current situation. Question responses are used in determining if you meet specific eligibility and qualification requirements. Please Note: Until the closing date of the announcement, you can update or edit your package. However, once your application package is submitted and the announcement period closes, we are unable to add documentation or alter your responses. By submitting your package for consideration, you are attesting that your application package is complete and accurate. Please select "Yes" or "No" to the following question(s).


6.
CERTIFICATION OF UNDERSTANDING: Select the appropriate answer to the statement below. Failure to provide an answer will result in your not being considered for this position.

I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes. I understand the information provided above, and I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
 No. I do not certify this information, and I do not wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙