Position Title
Forestry Technician (Fire Dispatch) - Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Interior, Bureau of Indian Affairs
Announcement Number
DHA-25-12753138-CBXH-JR Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 22, 2025 to Tuesday, August 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This position is subject to the Indian Preference Act of 1934 (25 U.S.C. 472), which affords employment preference to qualified Native American candidates.  Proof of eligibility, in the form of a completed Verification of Indian Preference, BIA - 4432 Form, must be provided with your application by the closing date to be granted such preference.  

Are you claiming Indian Preference, and submitting your BIA-4432 Form?
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
6
7
Assessment 1
Preference in filling vacancies is given to qualified Indian candidates in accordance with the Indian Preference Act of 1934 (Title 25, USC, Section 472). Verification of Form BIA-4432 must be submitted with the application if claiming Indian Preference.
1. Are you submitting Form BIA-4432, Verification of Indian Preference for Employment in the Bureau of Indian Affairs, to claim Indian Preference? Note: You must include your Form BIA-4432. As outlined in the vacancy announcement, this is the ONLY Indian Preference Verification Form that will be accepted.

 A. Yes, I am submitting Form BIA-4432.
 B. No, I am not claiming Indian preference.
This position has been designated as an Incidental Operator under the Indian Affairs Motor Vehicle Safety Program and requires the incumbent to operate a motor vehicle in order to properly carry out his/her assigned duties but whose principal duties are not operating a motor vehicle and his/her position is not classified as a motor vehicle operator. The incumbent will be required annually to acknowledge and certify possession of a valid state driver's license.
2. Do you possess a valid State Driver's License?
 A. Yes, I certify that I possess a valid State Driver’s License.
 B. No, I do not possess a valid State Driver’s License.
SECONDARY-ADMINISTRATIVE COVERAGE: This position is covered under the secondary/administrative firefighter special retirement provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8336(c)(CSRS) and 5 U.S.C. 8412(d)(FERS) when it is filled by an incumbent who transfers directly from a primary or another secondary law enforcement or firefighting position with no break in service to this position. Firefighter retirement coverage of the incumbent will depend upon his or her individual work history. You may meet the qualification requirements, but not be eligible for special retirement coverage. If you are not eligible for special retirement coverage, you will be placed in the regular retirement system.
3. This position is a secondary-administrative firefighter position under the special retirement provisions of 5 USC 8336(c)(CSRS) and 5 USC 8412(d)(FERS). Do you understand that you may meet the position qualification requirements, but not meet special retirement coverage eligibility and in that case, if selected, you will be placed in the regular retirement code?

 A. Yes
 B. No
SELECTIVE PLACEMENT FACTORS: This position requires a special qualification that has been determined to be essential to perform the duties and will be used as a screen out element. The applicants who do not provide evidence they possess the following selective factor will be rated not qualified.
This position requires a minimum 90 days of previous wildland firefighting experience which provided knowledge of the techniques, policies, and practices of wildland fire management. Wildland fires are categorized into two distinct types: (1) Wildfires are unplanned ignitions or prescribed fires that are declared wildfires; (2) Prescribed fires are planned ignitions. This description includes only fireline experience on a prescribed fire and it does not include experience in the planning stages. Please indicate if you possess this minimum 90 days of previous wildland firefighting experience.
4. Do you have a minimum 90 days of prior wildland firefighting experience as described above?

 A. Yes, I have prior wildland firefighting experience.
 B. No, I do not have any prior wildland firefighting experience as described above.
You must meet the specialized experience requirements for GS-0462 comparable in scope and responsibility to the next lower level in the federal service. The quality, type, and scope of your experience must demonstrate that you are fully qualified to perform the duties of the position to be filled. Be sure you describe your experience/background as it relates to the duties of this position since your application or resume must support the response you select.  In addition, if qualifying based on education, you must submit a complete, legible copy of your official college or university transcript(s) with your application to document academic achievements and receive credit.
5. Carefully read the following descriptions. Select one statement that best describes your education and/or experience which demonstrates your ability to work as a Forestry Technician (Fire Dispatcher) at the GS-6 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service. Make sure your resume supports the response you select.
 A. I have 1 year of specialized work experience equivalent to the GS-05 level. Examples of specialized experience include serving as a dispatcher receiving, filling, and tracking resource requests and other emergency incidents; sending requests to higher organizational levels for additional resources as needed. Dispatching personnel, equipment, aircraft, and supplies for fire and non-fire activity; arranging for ground and air transportation of personnel, supplies, and equipment in support of emergency and project activities; and collect, process, and disseminate weather and smoke management information into computer programs or databases. Public safety dispatching (e.g., fire or law enforcement, emergency medical, search and rescue, etc.), operations in the communications center; preparing written records to capture all significant events for later analysis. Examples of specialized experience include, but are not limited to, serving as a office or center dispatcher receiving, filling, and tracking resource requests and other emergency incidents; sending requests to higher organizational levels for additional resources as needed.
 B. I have successfully completed one full year of graduate-level education (18 semester hours, 27 quarter hours or equivalent) in forestry, range or fire management, agriculture, or a subject-matter field directly related to the position.
 C. I have a combination of specialized experience as described in A and graduate education as described in B and when combined together this meets 100% of the total requirements for the position. To compute, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify.
 D. I do not have the experience or education described in any of the above statements.
6. Carefully read the following descriptions. Select one statement that best describes your education and/or experience which demonstrates your ability to work as a Forestry Technician (Fire Dispatcher) at the GS-7 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service. Make sure your resume supports the response you select.
 A. I have 1 year of specialized work experience equivalent to the GS-06 level. Examples of specialized experience include performing as a dispatcher and directing others in receiving fire reports, determining location, land status, and fire information; determines appropriate resource response to incidents and requests from the field and dispatches personnel, equipment, aircraft and/or supplies; anticipates fire suppression needs and determines resource allocation; operates and/or directs the operation of various dispatch telecommunication systems; organizes and reviews completed records of all orders placed and actions taken to ensure adherence to established operating procedures and providing orientation and training to other dispatchers and assisting in implementation of a successful fire management program. Providing public safety dispatching (e.g., fire, law enforcement, emergency medical, search and rescue, etc.) operations in the communications office/center; utilizing emergency reporting systems to coordinate emergency response.
 B. I have successfully completed one full year of graduate-level education (18 semester hours, 27 quarter hours or equivalent) in forestry, range or fire management, agriculture, or a subject-matter field directly related to the position.
 C. I have a combination of specialized experience as described in A and graduate education as described in B and when combined together this meets 100% of the total requirements for the position. To compute, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify.
 D. I do not have the experience or education described in any of the above statements.
7. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected