Position Title
Administration Assistant
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12819812 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 17, 2025 to Thursday, October 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
How many years of experience in administrative functions do you have, to include: excellent typing skills, ability to use a personal computer with specific ability with word processing, spreadsheet, database, and presentation software--Microsoft Word, Excel, Access and PowerPoint? Must be documented on your resume to get credit.
 5 years or more documented experience
 3 to 5 years documented experience
 2 to 3 years documented experience
 Less than 2 years documented experience


2.
How many years experience do you have executing purchases to include completing purchase requests, statements of work, cash disbursement memorandum and sole source justifications. Must be documented on your resume to get credit.
 3 to 5 years experience
 2 to 3 years experience
 1 to 2 years experience
 Less than a year of experience


3.
How many years of experience do you have in using Excel spreadsheets to formulate cells and populate data in order to track annual contracts and invoice expenses as an organizational means? Must be documented on your resume to get credit.
 3 or more years of experience
 2 to 3 years of experience
 1 to 2 years of experience
 Less than a year of experience


4.
How many years of experience in establishing systems for organizing correspondence, budget information, purchasing documents, plant property, inventory, etc. do you have? Must be documented on your resume.
 3 years or more experience
 2 to 3 years of experience
 1 to 2 years of experience
 Less than 1 year of experience


5.
How many years of experience working for Fleet & Family Readiness programs do you have listed on your resume
 2 or more years of experience
 1 to 2 years of experience
 Less than 1 year of experience
 No experience


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙