Position Title
Genetic Counselor (Clinical)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBFF-12760201-25-EJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, July 11, 2025 to Wednesday, July 16, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
Assessment 1
To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements. Please select the appropriate response as it pertains to your qualifications for the following questions.
Basic Requirements: To qualify for appointment to this position, all applicants must possess the following:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7403(f)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you possess a Master's degree or higher in genetic counseling from a program in the United States or Canada accredited by the Accreditation Council for Genetic Counseling (ACGC). Coursework typically includes clinical genetics, population genetics, cytogenetics and molecular genetics coupled with psychosocial theory, ethics, and counseling techniques. Clinical rotations in medical genetics centers approved by the ACGC are an integral part of the degree requirements. Individuals who graduated prior to 1993 must have graduated from a program accepted by the American Board of Genetic Counselors as equivalent for certification purposes at that time.
 A. Yes
 B. I am a past, current, or upcoming VA Health Professional Trainee (HPT) who has successfully completed or is expected to successfully complete an affiliate sponsored or VA sponsored training program, and I am on track for meeting the requirement at the time of appointment. I understand that I must provide proof of HPT to be considered.
 C. No
2a.

Please provide the following information regarding the clinical practice program you completed or are currently completing. Otherwise, indicate N/A.

Name of Institution
City and State
Program
Month and Year Completed/Expected Completion Date
3. Do you possess a board certification in the field of Genetic Counseling by the American Board of Genetic Counseling (ABGC). The board certification must be current and the applicant must abide by the certifying body's requirements for continuing education.
 A. Yes
 B. I am a past, current, or upcoming VA Health Professional Trainee (HPT) who has successfully completed or is expected to successfully complete an affiliate sponsored or VA sponsored training program, and I am on track for meeting the requirement at the time of appointment. I understand that I must provide proof of HPT to be considered.
 C. No
3a. Please provide your certification information. If you are not certified indicate N/A
Type of Certification(s) and numbers
Month and Year Certified/Expected Certification Date
Accrediting Body
Grade Level Requirements - Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.
4. Do you possess one year of experience equivalent to the next lowest grade level (GS-11)? Examples of experience would typically include, but are not limited to: Working as a part of a healthcare team in collaboration with physicians to assess genetic risk based on personal and family history, determine if and what type of genetic testing may be useful, interpret results of genetic testing, and help patients make informed choices and adapt to a genetic risk or diagnosis; Contribute to the translation of important genomic findings and other genetics research to patients with hereditary conditions predisposing to disease in a variety of ways; Guide patients and other providers who seek more information about how inherited diseases and conditions might affect patients or their families. This includes ordering appropriate genetic tests and interpreting genetic test results based on personal and family history to help patients make informed choices and adapt to a genetic risk or diagnosis; and Participate in evaluating the effectiveness of genetic counseling services to include any changes in methods and procedures.
 A. Yes
 B. I am a past, current, or upcoming VA Health Professional Trainee (HPT) who has successfully completed or is expected to successfully complete an affiliate sponsored or VA sponsored training program, and I am on track for meeting the requirement at the time of appointment. I understand that I must provide proof of HPT to be considered.
 C. No
5. In addition to meeting the experience for the GS-12 level, do you possess the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities?
Ability to organize, synthesize and select relevant clinical and programmatic information and effectively manage and organize time/priorities.
Advanced knowledge of genetic conditions, with specific expertise in targeted conditions.
Knowledge of, and ability to integrate, general learning/teaching principles.
Knowledge of national genetic counseling services, and most current methods and practices, as well as services available in VA, including program infrastructure and operations.
Ability to identify target audiences within and outside the VA for whom genetics educational material would be relevant.
Knowledge of educational resources available for genetic counselors as well as other medical specialties, as appropriate.
Ability to mentor/train genetic counseling students as well as newly hired genetic counselors.
 A. Yes
 B. I am a past, current, or upcoming VA Health Professional Trainee (HPT) who has successfully completed or is expected to successfully complete an affiliate sponsored or VA sponsored training program, and I am on track for meeting the requirement at the time of appointment. I understand that I must provide proof of HPT to be considered.
 C. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected