Position Title
HUMAN RESOURCES SPECIALIST (MILITARY)(T32)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
AL-12766044-AF-25-088 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 15, 2025 to Tuesday, August 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. All on-board federal employees/technicians within the state for which you are applying (Title 32 and Title 5, Permanent and Excepted Indefinite).  Are you a current on-board federal employee or technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1, 2,or 3).
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. All on-board National Guard Title 32 Excepted Technicians within the state for which you are applying (Title 32 Permanent and Excepted Indefinite).  Are you a current on-board National Guard Title 32 Excepted Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1, 2, or 3).
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

All current (nationwide) federal employees.  Are you a current federal employee?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1 or 2).

 

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current Permanent full-time Dual Status National Guard Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Permanent full-time status with the state National Guard.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current Temporary Indefinite full-time Dual Status National Guard Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Indefinite full-time status with the state National Guard.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. National Guard- All On-Board In-State National Guard Title 5 Excepted Employees (NG T5 Perm Empl).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Please answer the following questions to the best of your knowledge.
1. Are you currently a full-time technician in the Alabama Air National Guard?
 A. Yes, I am currently a full-time technician in the Alabama Air National Guard.
 B. No, I am currently a temporary technician or Drill status member of the Alabama Air National Guard.
 C. I am not currently in the Alabama Air National Guard.
2. Do you currently possess the required rank for this position? (Please see job announcement for listed min/max military rank).
 A. Yes, I am currently within the required ranks for this position.
 B. No, I am not currently within the required ranks for this position.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. This position requires at least 1-year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade in the following tasks: Specialized experience is experience that prepared the applicant to perform the duties of the position. The applicant's educational-degree study program or military or civilian academic courses may substitute for some specialized experience. An applicant must demonstrate the specialized experience competencies (skills, knowledge, abilities and behaviors) to qualify for a position identified by its position grade and career level. Specialized experience factors encompass human resources program's business competencies, familiarity with the subject matter or processes used in human resources programs associated with DoD, U.S. Army, or U.S. Air Force. Do you currently possess this experience?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
4. Ability to communicate, both orally and in writing, in regard to complex personnel management policies that determine the career management of ANG officer and enlisted personnel.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. Experience in managing the function of the work to be performed. Experience which includes leading, directing and assigning work of personnel.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected