Position Title
Lead Nuclear Materials Courier
Agency
National Nuclear Security Administration
Announcement Number
25-XA-00244-12779300-NNSA Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 10, 2025 to Monday, September 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1. Do any of your relatives work for the agency to which you are applying? If so, please list any applicable names below. Please enter N/A in the text box, if not Applicable. (Include: father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, and half sister).
2. I understand that the responses in this questionnaire must be fully supported in my online resume. I further understand that my resume must provide detailed descriptions and/or examples of my knowledge and competencies as required in the vacancy announcement, and that my failure to do so may result in my being rated "ineligible" or "not qualified" for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
WARNING! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from employment consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications.
3. I have read this Vacancy Announcement thoroughly and understand that supplemental documentation may be required. I further understand that I will not be considered if my supplemental documentation is not received in the Servicing Personnel Office by the closing date of the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I declare under penalty of perjury, that all statements contained in this application and any accompanying documents are true and correct, with full knowledge that all statements made in this application are subject to investigation and that any false or dishonest answer to any question may be grounds for disqualification and loss of consideration.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you currently serving or have you served under a Political Appointment in the Federal Government within the last five (5) years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
The incumbent will serve as a member of a highly specialized protective force and will be responsible for the safe and secure transportation of classified and/or hazardous materials of significant importance to the national security. Please answer the below minimum qualification questions.
1. You must meet the basic qualifications requirements at the NV-03 level (GS-12). Please select the option
which best describes your experience.

 A. I have one full year of specialized experience in responsibility and scope at the NV-02 pay band or the GS-11 level as described in the vacancy announcement under specialized experience requirements.
 B. I do not meet the experience requirements described above.
2. In the text box below; please identify the position(s) and timeframes listed in your resume where you provided detailed information which identifies 1-year of armed security experience you selected in your responses above. NOTE: Your resume must clearly support the response you selected, or we will not be able to give you credit.

3. Are you a current National Nuclear Security Administration employee?

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Do you have experience as a Nuclear Materials Courier?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Please respond to the following assessment questions. These responses must be supported by your resume.
5. Skill in security planning, conduct or oversight of threat assessments of potential hostilities and adverse conditions to include man-made and environmental conditions.
 A. As an acting Convoy Commander in Charge or RTL, I have conducted pre-operational shipment planning with intelligence operations specialists, Duty Officers, and Deputy Directors; planned routes and stops; provided highly technical input on developing security plans; conducted or oversaw threat assessments of potential hostilities and adverse conditions to include man-made conditions and natural phenomena.
 B. Under direct supervision, I have conducted pre-operational shipment planning with intelligence operations specialists, Duty Officers, and Deputy Directors; planned routes and stops; provided highly technical input on developing security plans; conducted or oversaw threat assessments of potential hostilities and adverse conditions to include man-made conditions and natural phenomena.
 C. In part, I have assisted the Convoy Commander in Charge or RTL with pre-operational shipment planning with intelligence operations specialists, Duty Officers, and Deputy Directors; planning routes and stops; providing highly technical input on developing security plans; conducting or overseeing threat assessments of potential hostilities and adverse conditions to include man-made conditions and natural phenomena.
 D. I have knowledge of pre-operational shipment planning with intelligence operations specialists, Duty Officers, and Deputy Directors; planning routes and stops; providing highly technical input on developing security plans; conducting or overseeing threat assessments of potential hostilities and adverse conditions to include man-made conditions and natural phenomena.
 E. I have completed none of the above.
6. Ability to guide multiple tactical teams towards a specified objective in real world or in training venues.
 A. Under direct TCC supervision I have performed in the role of a Tactical Convoy Commander (TCC) during Operational Readiness Training, or other Unit sized training events guiding teams toward specific objectives.
 B. I have participated in advanced training courses and joint exercises with government law enforcement agencies to maintain and enhance proficiency in defensive tactics during realistic combat situations.
 C. I have observed a TCC conduct tactical objectives and have knowledge of the roles and responsibilities of a TCC.
 D. I have completed none of the above.
7. Proven ability to assign work resources within a Unit to include personnel and equipment.
 A. As an acting Convoy Commander in Charge or RTL I have directed and monitored the work activity of all subordinate agents during convoy operations including pre- and post-trip duties, redistributed work assignments to complete tasks, and assured classified operating procedures are followed.
 B. Under direct supervision I have directed and monitored the work activity of all subordinate agents during convoy operations including pre- and post-trip duties, redistributed work assignments to complete tasks, and assured classified operating procedures are followed.
 C. In part, I have assisted the CCIC or RTL in directing and monitoring the work activity of all subordinate agents during convoy operations including pre- and post-trip duties, in redistributing work assignments to complete tasks, and in assuring classified operating procedures are followed.
 D. I have knowledge of the roles the CCIC or RTL has in directing and monitoring the work activity of all subordinate agents during convoy operations including pre- and post-trip duties, in redistributing work assignments to complete tasks, and in assuring classified operating procedures are followed.
 E. I have not completed any of the above
8. Select the response which best reflects your experience performing the following team leader functions: 1. Coaching team members in problem solving methods. 2. Identifying, distributing, and balancing workload of team members. 3. Training or arranging training of team members. 4. Assist Convoy Commander in Charge (CCIC) or Squad Commander in evaluating the performance of team members 5. Resolving simple, informal complaints of team members. 6. Representing the team in dealings with supervisors. 7. Monitoring progress of and/or checking team assignments. 8. Assigning work based upon priorities, difficulty of assignments and capabilities of team members.
 A. I have performed all the above leader functions identified in the question above.
 B. I have performed at least 5 of the 7 leader functions identified in the question above.
 C. I have performed at least 1, but less than 5 of the above leader functions.
 D. I have not performed any of the leader functions identified in the question above.
9. Select the response which best describes your level of experience and knowledge of Office of Secure Transportation (OST) Procedures, Policies, and Directives and how they are applied operationally.

 A. While in mission status I have knowledge of the roles a CCIC or RTL needs to apply OST Standard Operating Procedures, Policies, and Directives.
 B. As acting CCIC, TCC, ACC, RTL, or ATL or under direct supervision I have applied OST Standard Operating Procedures, Policies, and Directives while in mission status.
 C. I do not have any of the above experience and/or knowledge.
10. Have you completed the OST F 74099.22 OST Convoy Commander Task Certification?
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Ability to rapidly assess a situation, determine course of action, provide direction to subordinates, and communicate status and/or recommendations to Agent Operations Command management.
 A. I have assessed situations, determined courses of action, provided direction and communicated status to Agent Operations Command management.
 B. I have assisted the CCIC with direct assessment of a situation, determining the course of action and communicating recommendations to Agent Operations Command management.
 C. I have not completed any of the above.
WARNING! USAJOBS ONLINE positions close at midnight Eastern Time (ET) on the closing date of the vacancy announcement. After midnight ET, jobs that have closed will not be available for review or application.
REMINDER! Your resume must be established in your account to verify experience claimed in your responses to the questions. To be considered, you must ensure that your resume is submitted before the vacancy announcement closes.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
12. I understand that I must click on the "SUBMIT APPLICATION" button, located at the end of the review of my answers and resume, to complete the application process. I understand that I will receive a confirmation page AND that I should print this confirmation page.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Thank you for using the DOE Jobs Online system and for your interest in employment with the Department of Energy!
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected