Position Title
Aircraft Mechanic Inspector
Agency
Office of the Secretary of the Interior
Announcement Number
OS-6054-25-ETA- 108(DEU) Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 9, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.

Do you wish to be considered under CTAP?
To be eligible for Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP), a person must:

Be a current or former permanent competitive status DOI federal employee displaced from a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy with a current (or last) performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To claim eligibility under CTAP, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

Copies of the appropriate documentation which includes:

Reduction in force (RIF) separation notice;
SF-50 reflecting your RIF separation, or a notice of proposed removal for declining a directed reassignment or transfer of function to another commuting area;
You MUST also submit documentation to reflect your current (or last) performance rating of record.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

Do you wish to be considered under ICTAP?
To be eligible for Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP), a person must:

Be a current or former permanent competitive status federal employee displaced from a position in a non-DOI federal agency (e.g., IRS, VA, Department of Labor, etc.) in the same local commuting area of the vacancy with a current (or last) performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To claim eligibility under ICTAP, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

Copies of the appropriate documentation which includes:

Reduction in force (RIF) separation notice;
SF-50 reflecting your RIF separation, or a notice of proposed removal for declining a directed reassignment or transfer of function to another commuting area;
You MUST also submit documentation to reflect your current (or last) performance rating of record.
 A. Yes
 B. No
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
4. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
6. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
7. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
8. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. It is your responsibility to ensure that your resume and correct documents are uploaded and received. Please, verify during the application process on the "application review page" that you have uploaded the appropriate documentation as stated in the required documents section of the vacancy announcement. No documentation will be accepted after the closing date of the announcement. I understand that it is my responsibility that I must submit a resume and all required supporting documentation prior to the closing date of the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. What attracted you to this position?
 A. Service as a Civil Servant
 B. Government Benefits
 C. Salary
 D. Work Schedule Flexibility
 E. Downturn in Non-Federal Job Market
 F. Job Stability
 G. Office Location
 H. Other
3. If you have ever held a Federal position please indicate your pay plan, highest grade held, and dates held below (e.g. GS-13; 08/15/11 - 08/15/12). If applying based on noncompetitive eligibility and if you do not have prior Federal service, please type "N/A" in the text box below. (limit 100 characters)
4. Applicants who apply under this job opportunity announcement have the option to have their application, associated documents and applicable personal information shared with other Bureaus/Offices within the Department of the Interior (DOI) that have vacancies within the same occupational series, grade, promotion potential and in the same geographic location(s), including within the same metro/commuting area. Applying to this announcement does not replace the need to apply to other job opportunity announcements for which you wish to receive consideration. If you select "yes", your information could potentially be shared with other bureaus if there is a need to fill another position. If you select "no", your information will NOT be shared with other bureaus. Do you agree to have your information shared with other bureaus?
 A. Yes, I would like my information shared with other bureaus.
 B. No, I would not like my information shared with other bureaus.
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this vacancy. Please select the response that best reflects how you meet the qualification requirements for this position.
Please read all of the statements below, and then select the response that best describes your current certification/ licensure. This job has a selective placement factor element which will be used to determine minimum eligibility for this job. Applicants who do not possess the certification and/or licensure or qualified, or willing and able to obtain one will be ineligible. Your resume and responses to the self-assessment questions are an integral part of the process for determining your qualifications for this position. Therefore, it is important that your resume supports your responses to the assessment questions.
1. Do you possess a current Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Mechanic Certificate with Airframe and Powerplant (A&P) Rating with current Inspection Authorization (IA) privileges; OR, Qualified, and willing to obtain an IA within 6 months of employment?
Note: Inspection Authorization must be obtained within 6 months of employment or candidate will be found ineligible for position and terminated.
 A. I possess a current Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Mechanic Certificate with Airframe and Powerplant (A&P) Rating with current Inspection Authorization (IA) privileges and have submitted proof of the certificates with my application.
 B. I DO NOT possess a current Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Mechanic Certificate with Airframe and Powerplant (A&P) Rating with current Inspection Authorization (IA), but I am qualified, willing, and able to obtain an IA within 6 months of employment.
 C. I do not meet any of the above statements.
2. Have you been actively engaged, for at least the preceding three-year period, in maintaining light piston powered aircraft certificated and maintained, in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations?

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. If you answered "Yes" to the question above, please specify where this experience is documented in your resume (by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties). (limit 250 characters)
4. Do you currently hold an effective mechanic certificate with both an airframe and a powerplant rating, each of which is currently effective and has been in effect for a total of at least three years?
 A. Yes, and I have submitted proof of the certificates with my application.
 B. No
Please read all of the statements below, and then select the response that best describes your current ability to meet the conditions of employment. This job has conditions of employment which will be used to determine minimum eligibility for this job. Applicants who answer "no" to any of the questions below will be found ineligible.
5. Do you possess a valid state Driver's license?
 A. Yes, I have submitted a copy of my license to verify this information.
 B. No, I do not currently have a valid state driver's license.
6. Are you physically able to independently lift and carry parts and equipment up to 20 pounds and lift and carry items up to 50 pounds as a routine job function?

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you able to perform work inside a heated hanger on concrete floors or on work stands/ladders and also outside in adverse weather conditions while subject to extremely loud noises during maintenance operations and engine run-up tests?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Do you possess sufficient hearing, vision, and physical dexterity to fulfill the position of a journeyman Airframe and Powerplant technician with Inspectors Authorization?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Do you have the ability to do the work of an aircraft mechanic inspector without more than normal supervision such as: perform inspection, maintenance, repair, and/or alteration to certificated light piston powered aircraft and associated components and systems and complete the return to service of certificated light piston powered aircraft?
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you able to work independently or as part of a team after receiving daily work assignments in order to make airworthiness determinations and effect repairs on deficient aircraft/aircraft components and release aircraft from maintenance for return to service?
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. When assistance is needed in complex situations, are you able to be an effective participant in decision making and provide insight to work leaders and management?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
12. Do you have experience inspecting incoming aircraft and aircraft components to verify discrepancies found during operational use and determine type and extent of repair required?
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Do you have experience inspecting proposed and completed maintenance actions performed by other mechanics to determine eligibility, applicability, and airworthiness of the repairs?
 A. Yes
 B. No
14. If you answered "Yes" to the question above, please specify where this experience is documented in your resume (by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties).
(limit 250 characters)
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
15. Do you have experience conducting and completing, including release from maintenance for return to service, annual inspections, 100-hour inspections or phase inspections (all phases) on certificated light piston powered aircraft maintained in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations?
 A. Yes
 B. No
For each task in the following group, choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training. Only select one response for each item. Read all responses before making your selection. You are required to answer every question in the questionnaire. YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWERS YOU CLAIM IN THE QUESTIONNAIRE IN ORDER TO BE FOUND QUALIFIED AND CONSIDERED FOR THE POSITION.
16. Ensures all parts and materials used on certified light piston powered aircraft are approved, correct, serviceable, and eligible for installation.

 A. I am not familiar with insuring that all parts and materials used on aircraft are approved, correct, serviceable, and eligible for installation.
 B. I am familiar with insuring that all parts and materials used on aircraft are approved, correct, serviceable, and eligible for installation, but I have no personal experience performing this work as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; insuring that all parts and materials used on aircraft are approved, correct, serviceable, and eligible for installation with minimal supervision, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability, insuring that all parts and materials used on aircraft are approved, correct, serviceable, and eligible for installation as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability, ensuring that all parts and materials used on aircraft are approved, correct, serviceable, and eligible for installation as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector and have instructed or trained others in performing these tasks without supervision.
17. Identifies and applies new technologies that support aviation mission safety, efficiency, and cost effectiveness.

 A. I am not familiar with identifying and applying new technologies that support aviation mission safety, efficiency, and cost effectiveness.
 B. I am familiar with identifying and applying new technologies that support aviation mission safety, efficiency and cost effectiveness, but I have no personal experience performing the work of an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; identifying and applying new technologies that support aviation mission safety, efficiency and cost effectiveness with minimal supervision, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability; identifying and applying new technologies that support aviation mission safety, efficiency and cost effectiveness as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as identifying and applying new technologies that support aviation mission safety, efficiency and cost effectiveness and have instructed or trained others in performing these tasks without supervision.
18. Conducts or assists others in the completion of Major Repairs or Major Alterations and executes FAA form 337 as defined by the Federal Aviation Regulations on certificated light piston powered civil aircraft.

 A. I am not familiar with conducting or assisting others in the completion of Major Repairs or Major Alterations and executed FAA form 337 as defined by the Federal Aviation Regulations on certificated light piston powered civil aircraft.
 B. I am familiar with conducting or assisting others in the completion of Major Repairs or Major Alterations and executed FAA form 337 as defined by the Federal Aviation Regulations on certificated light piston powered civil aircraft, but I have no personal experience performing this work as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; conducting or assisting others in the completion of Major Repairs or Major Alterations and executed FAA form 337 as defined by the Federal Aviation Regulations on certificated light piston powered civil aircraft with minimal supervision, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability; conducting or assisting others in the completion of Major Repairs or Major Alterations and executed FAA form 337 as defined by the Federal Aviation Regulations on certificated light piston powered civil aircraft as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; conducting or assisting others in the completion of Major Repairs or Major Alterations and executed FAA form 337 as defined by the Federal Aviation Regulations on certificated light piston powered civil aircraft and have instructed or trained others in performing these tasks without supervision.
19. Inspects incoming aircraft and aircraft components, and verifies discrepancies found during operational use to determine type and extent of repair required.

 A. I am not familiar with inspecting incoming aircraft and aircraft components, and verify discrepancies found during operational use to determine type and extent of repair required.
 B. I am familiar with inspecting incoming aircraft and aircraft components, and verifying discrepancies found during operational use to determine type and extent of repair required, but I have no personal experience performing the work of an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; inspecting incoming aircraft and aircraft components, and verifying discrepancies found during operational use to determine type and extent of repair required with minimal supervision, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability; inspecting incoming aircraft and aircraft components, and verifying discrepancies found during operational use to determine type and extent of repair required as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; inspecting incoming aircraft and aircraft components, and verifying discrepancies found during operational use to determine type and extent of repair required and have instructed or trained others in performing tasks without supervision.
20. Inspects proposed and completed maintenance actions performed by other mechanics to determine eligibility and applicability and airworthiness of the repairs.

 A. I am not familiar with inspecting proposed and completed maintenance actions performed by other mechanics to determine eligibility and applicability and airworthiness of the repairs.
 B. I am familiar with inspecting proposed and completed maintenance actions performed by other mechanics to determine eligibility and applicability and airworthiness of the repairs, but I have no personal experience performing the work of an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; inspecting proposed and completed maintenance actions performed by other mechanics to determine eligibility and applicability and airworthiness of the repairs with minimal supervision, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability inspecting proposed and completed maintenance actions performed by other mechanics to determine eligibility and applicability and airworthiness of the repairs as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; inspecting proposed and completed maintenance actions performed by other mechanics to determine eligibility and applicability and airworthiness of the repairs and have instructed or trained others in performing tasks without supervision.
21. Conducts and completes, to include release from maintenance for return to service, Annual inspections, or 100-hour inspections or phase inspections (all phases) on certificated light piston powered aircraft maintained in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations.

 A. I am not familiar with conducting and completing, to include release from maintenance for return to service, Annual inspections, or 100 hour inspections or phase inspections (all phases) on certificated light piston powered aircraft maintained in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations.
 B. I am familiar conducting and completing, to include release from maintenance for return to service, Annual inspections, or 100 hour inspections or phase inspections (all phases) on certificated light piston powered aircraft maintained in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations but I have no personal experience performing this work as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; conducting and completing, to include release from maintenance for return to service, Annual inspections, or 100 hour inspections or phase inspections (all phases) on certificated light piston powered aircraft maintained in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations with minimal supervision, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability conducting and completing, to include release from maintenance for return to service, Annual inspections, or 100 hour inspections or phase inspections (all phases) on certificated light piston powered aircraft maintained in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; conducting and completing, to include release from maintenance for return to service, Annual inspections, or 100 hour inspections or phase inspections (all phases) on certificated light piston powered aircraft maintained in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations and have instructed or trained others in performing these tasks without supervision.
22. Conductes control system rigging or inspected completed rigging maintenance actions on light general aviation helicopters.
 A. I am not familiar with conducting control system rigging or inspecting completed rigging maintenance actions on light general aviation helicopters.
 B. I am familiar with conducting control system rigging or inspected completed rigging maintenance actions on light general aviation helicopters, but I have no personal experience performing the work.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability conducting control system rigging or inspecting completed rigging maintenance actions on light general aviation helicopters, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability conducting control system rigging or inspecting completed rigging maintenance actions on light general aviation helicopters, with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability conducting control system rigging or inspecting completed rigging maintenance actions on light general aviation helicopters and have instructed or trained others in performing these tasks without supervision.
23. Conducts maintenance, and releases from maintenance for return to service, certified general aviation helicopters in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations.

 A. I am not familiar with conducting maintenance, and releasing from maintenance for return to service, certified general aviation helicopters in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations.
 B. I am familiar with conducting maintenance, and releasing from maintenance for return to service, certified general aviation helicopters in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations, but I have no personal experience performing the work.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability conducting maintenance, and releasing from maintenance for return to service, certified general aviation helicopters in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability conducting maintenance, and releasing from maintenance for return to service, certified general aviation helicopters in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability conducting maintenance, and releasing from maintenance for return to service, certified general aviation helicopters in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations and have instructed or trained others in performing these tasks without supervision.
24. Briefly and accurately expresses, orally or in writing, complex technical problems in terms that permit the listener to make a valid decision.

 A. I am not familiar with briefly and accurately expressing, orally or in writing, complex technical problems in terms that permit the listener to make a valid decision.
 B. I am familiar with briefly and accurately expressing, orally or in writing, complex technical problems in terms that permit the listener to make a valid decision, but I have no personal experience performing the work of an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; briefly and accurately expressing, orally or in writing, complex technical problems in terms that permit the listener to make a valid decision, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability briefly and accurately expressing, orally or in writing, complex technical problems in terms that permit the listener to make a valid decision as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; briefly and accurately expressing, orally or in writing, complex technical problems in terms that permit the listener to make a valid decision and have instructed or trained others in performing tasks without supervision.
25. Conducts maintenance, and releases from maintenance for return to service, certified light single engine piston aircraft in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations.

 A. I am not familiar with conducting maintenance, and releasing from maintenance for return to service, certified light single engine piston aircraft in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations.
 B. I am familiar with conducting maintenance, and releasing from maintenance for return to service, certified light single engine piston aircraft in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations, but I have no personal experience performing the work of an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; conducting maintenance, and releasing from maintenance for return to service, certified light single engine piston aircraft in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability conducting maintenance, and releasing from maintenance for return to service, certified light single engine piston aircraft in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; conducting maintenance, and releasing from maintenance for return to service, certified light single engine piston aircraft in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations and have instructed or trained others in performing these tasks without supervision.
26. Develops and maintains good working relationships with customers, coworkers, and stakeholders.

 A. I am not familiar with developing and maintaining good working relationships with customers, coworkers, and stakeholders.
 B. I am familiar with developing and maintaining good working relationships with customers, coworkers, and stakeholders, but I have no personal experience performing the work of an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; developing and maintaining good working relationships with customers, coworkers, and stakeholders, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability, developing, and maintaining good working relationships with customers, coworkers, and stakeholders as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as developing and maintaining good working relationships with customers, coworkers, and stakeholders and have instructed or trained others in performing tasks without supervision.
27. Cooperates in a professional manner with team members to identify and discuss problems and collaborate within a team environment to achieve desired outcomes.

 A. I am not familiar with cooperating in a professional manner with team members to identify and discuss problems and collaborate within a team environment to achieve desired outcomes.
 B. I am familiar with cooperating in a professional manner with team members to identify and discuss problems and collaborate within a team environment to achieve desired outcomes but I have no personal experience performing the work of an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; with cooperating in a professional manner with team members to identify and discuss problems and collaborate within a team environment to achieve desired outcomes, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability, cooperating in a professional manner with team members to identify and discuss problems and collaborate within a team environment to achieve desired outcomes as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as with cooperating in a professional manner with team members to identify and discuss problems and collaborate within a team environment to achieve desired outcomes and have instructed or trained others in performing tasks without supervision. For the task below choose the answer that best describes your experience and/or training.
28. Have you been in an environment where you effectively projected a positive attitude supportive to the objectives of the organization in achieving customer service excellence? NOTE: If you answer yes to this question you may be asked to elaborate if you are brought in for an interview.

 A. Yes
 B. No
29. Locates and scrutinizes a Type Certificate Data Sheet and Supplemental Type Certificates to determine what equipment may be installed or is required to be installed on an aircraft.
 A. I am not familiar with locating and scrutinizing a Type Certificate Data Sheet and Supplemental Type Certificates to determine what equipment may be installed or is required to be installed on an aircraft.
 B. I am familiar with locating and scrutinizing a Type Certificate Data Sheet and Supplemental Type Certificates to determine what equipment may be installed or is required to be installed on an aircraft, but I have no personal experience performing the work of an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; locating and scrutinizing a Type Certificate Data Sheet and Supplemental Type Certificates to determine what equipment may be installed or is required to be installed on an aircraft, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability locating and scrutinizing a Type Certificate Data Sheet and Supplemental Type Certificates to determine what equipment may be installed or is required to be installed on an aircraft with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; locating and scrutinizing a Type Certificate Data Sheet and Supplemental Type Certificates to determine what equipment may be installed or is required to be installed on an aircraft and have instructed or trained others in performing tasks without supervision.
30. Understands how to utilize Material Safety Data Sheets for protection of self and the environment.
 A. I am not familiar with utilizing Material Safety Data Sheets for protection of self and the environment.
 B. I am familiar with utilizing Material Safety Data Sheets for protection of self and the environment, but I have no personal experience performing this work as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as utilizing Material Safety Data Sheets for protection of self and the environment requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability utilizing Material Safety Data Sheets for protection of self and the environment with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as utilizing Material Safety Data Sheets for protection of self and the environment and have instructed or trained others in performing these tasks without supervision.
31. Conducts landing gear changes (I.E. unserviceable gear to serviceable gear, wheels to floats, wheels to ski's) on certificated light piston powered aircraft.
 A. I am not familiar with conducting landing gear changes (I.E. unserviceable gear to serviceable gear, wheels to floats, wheels to ski's) on certificated light piston powered aircraft.
 B. I am familiar with conducting landing gear changes (I.E. unserviceable gear to serviceable gear, wheels to floats, wheels to ski's) on certificated light piston powered aircraft, but I have no personal experience performing this work as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; conducting landing gear changes (I.E. unserviceable gear to serviceable gear, wheels to floats, wheels to ski's) on certificated light piston powered aircraft, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability, conducting landing gear changes (I.E. unserviceable gear to serviceable gear, wheels to floats, wheels to ski's) on certificated light piston powered aircraft, with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; conducting landing gear changes (I.E. unserviceable gear to serviceable gear, wheels to floats, wheels to ski's) on certificated light piston powered aircraft and have instructed or trained others in performing these tasks without supervision.
32. Utilizes precision measuring equipment, calibrated equipment, and affect its proper care.
 A. I am not familiar with utilizing precision measuring equipment, calibrated equipment, and affecting its proper care.
 B. I am familiar with utilizing precision measuring equipment, calibrated equipment, and affecting its proper care, but I have no personal experience performing the work of an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; with utilizing precision measuring equipment, calibrated equipment, and affecting its proper care, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability, with utilizing precision measuring equipment, calibrated equipment, and affecting its proper care, with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as with utilizing precision measuring equipment, calibrated equipment, and affecting its proper care and have instructed or trained others in performing tasks without supervision.
33. Accomplish track and balance on light general aviation helicopter rotor systems.
 A. I am not familiar with accomplishing track and balance on light general aviation helicopter rotor systems.
 B. I am familiar with accomplishing track and balance on light general aviation helicopter rotor systems, but I have no personal experience performing the work.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability accomplishing track and balance on light general aviation helicopter rotor systems requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability accomplishing track and balance on light general aviation helicopter rotor systems with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability accomplishing track and balance on light general aviation helicopter rotor systems and have instructed or trained others in performing these tasks without supervision.
34. Interprets and applies Federal Aviation Regulations, Repair Station Manual Guidelines and manufacturers manuals when conducting or evaluating maintenance to ensure regulatory compliance in support of producing Airworthy aircraft.

 A. I am not familiar with interpreting and applying Federal Aviation Regulations, Repair station Manual Guidelines and manufacturers manuals when conducting or evaluating maintenance to ensure regulatory compliance in support of producing Airworthy aircraft.
 B. I am familiar with interpreting and applying Federal Aviation Regulations, Repair station Manual Guidelines and manufacturers manuals when conducting or evaluating maintenance to ensure regulatory compliance in support of producing Airworthy aircraft, but I have no personal experience performing this work as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; interpreting and applying Federal Aviation Regulations, Repair station Manual Guidelines and manufacturers manuals when conducting or evaluating maintenance to ensure regulatory compliance in support of producing Airworthy aircraft with minimal supervision, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability interpreting and applying Federal Aviation Regulations, Repair station Manual Guidelines and manufacturers manuals when conducting or evaluating maintenance to ensure regulatory compliance in support of producing Airworthy aircraft with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; interpreting and applying Federal Aviation Regulations, Repair station Manual Guidelines and manufacturers manuals when conducting or evaluating maintenance to ensure regulatory compliance in support of producing Airworthy aircraft and have instructed or trained others in performing these tasks without supervision.
35. Evaluates for suitability initial installation of various supplemental type certificates STC (i.e., floats, skis, and other alterations) and execute installation.

 A. I am not familiar with evaluating for suitability initial installation of various supplemental type certificates STC (i.e., floats, skis, and other alterations) and executing installation.
 B. I am familiar with evaluating for suitability initial installation of various supplemental type certificates STC (i.e., floats, skis and other alterations) and executing installation, but I have no personal experience performing the work of an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; evaluating for suitability initial installation of various supplemental type certificates STC (i.e., floats, skis and other alterations) and executing installation with minimal supervision, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory evaluating for suitability initial installation of various supplemental type certificates STC (i.e., floats, skis and other alterations) and executing installation with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as evaluating for suitability initial installation of various supplemental type certificates STC (i.e., floats, skis and other alterations) and executing installation and have instructed or trained others in performing tasks without supervision.
36. Adjusts, troubleshoots, and repairs aircraft piston engines to include fuel, ignition and indicating systems.

 A. I am not familiar with adjusting, troubleshooting, and repairing piston engines to include fuel, ignition and indicating systems.
 B. I am familiar with adjusting, troubleshooting and repairing piston engines to include fuel, ignition and indicating systems, but I have no personal experience performing this work as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; adjusting, troubleshooting and repairing piston engines to include fuel, ignition and indicating systems, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability adjusting, troubleshooting, and repairing piston engines to include fuel, ignition and indicating systems with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as adjusting, troubleshooting, and repairing piston engines to include fuel, ignition and indicating systems and has instructed or trained others in performing these tasks without supervision.
37. Prevents, controls, identifies, treats, and repairs damage caused by various types of corrosion.

 A. I am not familiar with preventing, controlling, identifying, treating, and repairing damage caused by various types of corrosion.
 B. I am familiar with preventing, controlling, identifying, treating and repairing damage caused by various types of corrosion but I have no personal experience performing the work of an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; preventing, controlling, identifying, treating and repairing damage caused by various types of corrosion, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability preventing, controlling, identifying, treating, and repairing damage caused by various types of corrosion with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as preventing, controlling, identifying, treating, and repairing damage caused by various types of corrosion and have instructed or trained others in performing tasks without supervision.
38. Applies effective risk management strategies to mitigate present or potential problems.

 A. I am not familiar with applying effective risk management strategies to mitigate present or potential problems.
 B. I am familiar with applying effective risk management strategies to mitigate present or potential problems but I have no personal experience performing the work of an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; applying effective risk management strategies to mitigate present or potential problems, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability applying effective risk management strategies to mitigate present or potential problems with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as applying effective risk management strategies to mitigate present or potential problems and have instructed or trained others in performing tasks without supervision.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
39. This position is designated as a Non-Sensitive/Moderate Risk position. It requires a fully completed and favorably adjudicated Public Trust Suitability Background Investigation (T2S or T2RS or equivalent) that is current (within the last 5 years). This is a condition of employment.
Are you willing to undergo a comprehensive background investigation which includes, but is not limited to, contact with all references, employers, co-workers, personal associates, and a review of your driving record, credit history, criminal history, and military service?

 A. Yes
 B. No
40. During the last 7 years, have you been under any investigations?

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected