Position Title
CHEMICAL BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS ARMS CONTROL TREATY ANALYST
Agency
Organization of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
Announcement Number
JCS-25-12757097-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 3, 2025 to Monday, July 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a position with higher graded promotional potential than previously held?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. .

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Were you formerly employed as a federal civilian on a permanent competitive service appointment below the target grade of the advertised position, AND you have not been separated from federal employment for at least 1-year (from the date of this application) OR you did not receive at least a Fully Successful (or equivalent) performance rating in your most recent career/career-conditional position?

If eligible, submit:
A copy of your most recent separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting:
you held a career or career-conditional appointment (Tenure 1 or 2); AND
your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Were you formerly employed as a federal civilian on a permanent competitive service appointment at or above the target grade of the advertised position? 
                                                                                              OR
Were you formerly employed as a federal civilian on a permanent competitive service appointment below the target grade of the advertised position AND your date of separation was 1 or more years ago (from the date of your application) AND you received at least a Fully Successfully (or equivalent) rating of record in your most recent Career/Career-conditional position?   

If eligible, submit:
A copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting:
you held a career or career-conditional appointment (Tenure 1 or 2); AND
your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).
 
A copy of your performance rating from your most recent permanent federal competitive service position.  Your performance rating must reflect at least a Fully Successful (or equivalent) rating.
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and are applying a for a promotion?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).



 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and have held a position at or above the target grade for this position?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).


 A. Yes
 B. No
15. Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Would you accept a term appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes your highest-level of experience for the Chemical and Biological Weapons Arms Control Treaty Analyst GS-0301-14 position. To be creditable, specialized experience must be at the next lower grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. Read all the statements below completely before making your selection.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade-level (GS-13) in the federal service which is in or directly related to the line of work of the position. Creditable specialized experience includes: Serving as an organizations policy representative for negotiation of chemical and biological arms control treaties and agreements, as well as nuclear arms control treaty and agreements; Preparing briefings on complex issues regarding Joint Staff procedures, the U.S. Government interagency coordination, legislative processes, and legal concepts to senior leaders; Analyzing the laws, policies, regulations, and trends in the chemical, biological, and nuclear arms control treaties/agreements, and emerging treaty-related areas to support recommendations; Monitoring U.S. military command structure and organizational relationships with other national and international programs to review guidance, assess compliance, and represent the Joint Staff on related initiatives. (Experience must be reflected in resume)
 B. No. I do not have experience performing most of the above duties.
2. Have you served as a representative for your agency or company at various committees and work groups that discuss concepts and implications of chemical and biological arms control initiatives and policy?

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience analyzing Chemical and Biological Weapons Arms Control treaty/agreement-related decisions as well as industry developments and emerging treaty- related areas.
 A. I have analyzed Chemical and Biological Weapons Arms control agreement-related decisions as well as industry developments and emerging treaty- related areas as well as industry developments and emerging treaty- related areas as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee.
 B. I have assisted in analyzing Chemical and Biological Weapons Arms control treaty/agreement-related decisions as well as industry developments and emerging treaty- related areas.
 C. I have analyzed Chemical and Biological Weapons Arms control treaty/agreement-related decisions as well as industry developments and emerging treaty- related areas. I have performed this task myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 D. I have had training and/or education on Chemical and Biological Weapons Arms control treaty/agreement-related decisions as well as industry developments and emerging treaty- related areas.
 E. I do not have experience analyzing Chemical and Biological Weapons Arms control treaty/agreement-related decisions as well as industry developments and emerging treaty- related areas.
4. Do you have documented experience conducting qualitative, quantitative, and other types of complex analyses to support recommendations to senior leaders at the General Officer/Flag Officer (GO/FO) and Senior Executive Service (SES) levels?

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. From the following responses, please select the statements that best describe your knowledge and/or experience utilized in the performance of a job. (Select all that apply)

 A. Subject matter expert (SME) on analyzing assigned arms control agreements/treaties implementation and compliance duties and responsibilities.
 B. Represents your organization on arms control delegations to international venues.
 C. Examines compliance requirements of proposed U.S. initiatives, draft laws and regulations for the protection and compatibility of military interests.
 D. Reviews promulgated laws and regulations and develops requirements for Service and Component actions to comply with such requirements.
 E. Assesses Service and Component compliance with existing treaties and recommends actions to ensure compliance is maintained.
 F. Represents the Services and Components at Compliance Review Group (CRG) meetings to assess compliance concerns and make recommendations of corrective actions if required.
 G. Uses analytical tools at both technical and policy levels to assess, evaluate, and develop solutions to treaty compliance issues that are complex, broad in scope, and highly sensitive.
 H. Ensures unity and consistency of policies and programs among your organization.
 I. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response).
6. Have you served as a policy representative for negotiation of chemical and biological arms control treaties and agreements for any of the following? Select all that apply.

 A. Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC)
 B. Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention (BWC)
 C. Chemical Weapons Convention Challenge Inspections (CWC CI)
 D. Dual-Use Research of Concern (DURC)
 E. Other treaties and arms Control Forums.
 F. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response).
7. Do you have experience analyzing and synthesizing information, making inferences, and drawing conclusions from various interagency sources?

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Do you have documented experience assessing Service and Component compliance with existing treaties and recommending actions to ensure compliance is maintained.

 A. No
 B. Yes
9. Please select the response that best describes your experience with developing presentations for chemical and biological arms control policies and implementation.

 A. I have not had experience or training with developing presentations of chemical and biological arms control policies and implementation.
 B. I have participated in work groups that collectively develop presentations for chemical and biological arms control policies and implementation.
 C. Developing presentations for chemical and biological arms control policies and implementation has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 D. I have developed presentations for chemical and biological arms control policies and implementation.as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee.
 E. I have completed formal education or training on chemical and biological arms control policies and implementation but have not yet utilized that knowledge on the job.
10. From the following responses, please select the statements that best describe your experience in chemical and biological arms control-related processes. (Select all that apply)
 A. Develops or contributes chemical and biological arms control-related testimony or other presentations to Congress or other U.S. Government agencies.
 B. Accurately represent your organization's positions on chemical and biological arms control during contacts with Congressional staff.
 C. Monitors Congressional action on DoD defense/military strategy and programs, and drafts responses to official questions for the record.
 D. Formulates and coordinates Joint Staff positions to appeal Congressional actions and prepares and coordinates official responses to Congressional inquiries and reports.
 E. Represents your organization at National Security Council (NSC) staff meetings.
 F. Provides timely and accurate information and analyses of chemical and biological arms control policies/and functions to senior technical advisors at high level meetings.
 G. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response).
11. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience providing advice regarding compliance:

 A. I have experience providing advice related to legislative processes and legal concepts to my peers.
 B. I have experience providing advice related to legal concepts to my peers.
 C. I have experience providing advice related to legislative processes and legal concepts to senior level officials such as Senior Executive Service (SES) and General Officer/Flag Officers.
 D. I have experience assisting in providing advice related to legal concepts.
 E. I do not have experience providing advice related to legislative processes and legal concepts.
12. Have you assisted in providing military advice to the President or Secretary of Defense in support of and related to the following? Select all that apply.

 A. Strategic Planning
 B. National Security Strategy
 C. National Defense Strategy
 D. National Military Strategy
 E. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response).
13. Have you briefed complex issues and composed position papers on policy issues for senior leaders?

 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Do you have experience in any of the following areas as a reoccurring and regular part of your current or past responsibilities? Select all that apply.

 A. Exercises considerable independent judgment in applying appropriate guidelines.
 B. Shows personal initiative by volunteering to take on new issues and/or handling complex projects to support office needs.
 C. Autonomously handles issues and challenges while working to achieve objectives in the time frame specified at the beginning of the project.
 D. Chooses and applies appropriate guidelines and initiates analysis.
 E. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response).
15. From the following list of communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied. (Select all that apply)

 A. Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective.
 B. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments.
 C. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff.
 D. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations.
 E. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals.
 F. Organizes work, sets priorities, and determines resource requirements.
 G. Implements and/or utilizes strategic plans daily.
 H. None of the above
16. Please select the response that best describes your experience researching, coordinating, and preparing position papers, briefings, information papers, documents, and other correspondence for senior leadership?

 A. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 B. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 C. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee.
 D. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 E. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
17. What senior level officials or Offices have you had regular communication? Select all that apply.

 A. Joint Staff and Military Department Staffs
 B. Defense Agencies
 C. Combatant Commands
 D. National Security Council (NSC) Staff
 E. Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD)
 F. Senior Executive Service (SES)
 G. General Officer/Flag Officer
 H. U.S. and International Ambassadors
 I. None of the above (If selected, this should be your only response)
18. Do you have experience communicating ideas, concepts, methods, analyses, evaluations, and recommendations in a lucid, logical, and convincing manner to senior leaders at various command levels and communities of interest?

 A. Yes
 B. No
19. Are you proficient with the methods and requirements to safeguard communications and information used for sensitive operations and analytical activities?

 A. Yes
 B. No
20. How would you describe your approach to problem solving? Select all that apply.
 A. I am willing to step out of my comfort zone and consider solutions to the problem for every problem.
 B. I am willing to consider both traditional and non-traditional approaches to resolve a problem.
 C. I work on the solutions to the problem and present them to my peers and seniors.
 D. I prefer to work on solutions collaboratively and then present them to my peers and seniors.
 E. None of the above. (If selected, this should be your only response)
21. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience interpreting and adapting existing policies and regulatory guidance to develop new operating guidance/procedures.
 A. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 B. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 C. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 D. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 E. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected