Position Title
AIRCRAFT FLIGHT INSTRUCTOR (TITLE 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-12815918-AR-25-243 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 24, 2025 to Friday, November 7, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required. 

 Yes
 No


Military Requirement's
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at a NC ARNG unit/activity, other than (ASO - AASF#1) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at a NC ARNG unit/activity, other than (ASO - AASF #1) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC Army National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently assigned to one of the following: Active Duty Army, Army Reserve, or a State/Territory Army National Guard other than North Carolina.
 I am not currently assigned to one of the areas listed above.


2.
Are you currently assigned militarily as an Warrant Officer (CW2 - CW4)?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the General Experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-13 Aircraft Flight Instructor
 I HAVE a competent understanding of the occupation’s basic principles and concepts.
 I DO NOT HAVE a competent understanding of the occupation’s basic principles and concepts


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-13 Aircraft Flight Instructor.
 I HAVE at least 24 months experience in 1) specialized competencies in operating a specific main-frame military aircraft, mission planning, and mission preparation, 2) reviewing and analyzing mission tasking, intelligence, and weather information, 3) filing flight plans and conducting crew briefings, 4) aircraft preflight inspections, aircraft loading, and equipment assessments, 5) performing or supervising work procedures involved in navigation, in-flight refueling, search and rescue operations or surveillance and reconnaissance, 6) conducting or supervising the training of crew members in simple to complex mission specific tasks, 7) developing plans and policies, monitoring operations, and advising commanders, 8) knowledge of flight theory, air navigation, meteorology, flying directives, mission tactics, and operating procedures, 9) unit flying, explosive, and ground safety programs.
 I HAVE a combination of U.S. Army AH-64E Instructor Pilot Course qualified or have been recommended by the Unit Standardization Committee to attend AH-64/E Instructor Pilot Course. (copy of the Unit Standardization Committee meeting minutes must be included with application), that meets the overall specialized experience.
 I DO NOT have the experience, education or training listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙