Position Title
Human Resources Specialist
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
25-DO-12753209 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, June 24, 2025 to Monday, July 7, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current Treasury Department employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current Treasury employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current Treasury employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current Department of Treasury employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Kansas City, MO
 C. Brookhaven, NY
 D. Philadelphia, PA
 E. Memphis, TN
 F. Austin, TX
 G. Ogden, UT
 H. Parkersburg, WV
2. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other
4. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
5. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
7. Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.
8. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Which of the following describes your eligibility for this announcement?
 A. I am a current permanent Department of Treasury employee with competitive status.
 B. I am a Department of Treasury employee serving on a Veterans' Recruitment Appointment (VRA).
 C. I am an individual eligible for the Department of Treasury Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP).
 D. I do not meet any of the above criteria.
Assessment 1
Specialized experience for the GS-14 is defined as one (1) year of experience at the GS-13 level, or equivalent, that is directly related to the position and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience for this position includes the following:

- Experience interpreting and applying provisions of regulations and relevant statutory and case law to provide advice and guidance across an organization; AND
- Experience developing enterprise-wide Human Resources (HR) policy, supplemental guidance, and conducting operational work in support of federal HR to include operations of recruitment/placement, talent acquisition, outreach, special placement programs, and position management/position classification; AND
- Experience providing authoritative advice to HR practitioners on matters related to staffing, recruitment, talent acquisition, and position management/position classification to resolve bureau-wide, or company issues.
1. For the GS-14, select the answer that best describes your experience.
 A. I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the previous question.
 B. I do not have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the previous question.
2. Make sure examples of this experience are clearly documented in your resume. Please give the dates/resume reference when you gained this experience so it may be found to ensure you receive proper credit. (Maximum length of 250 characters.) (limit 250 characters)
3. Select the answer(s) that describes your experience with staffing or talent management. Select only those areas in which you have experience in applying HR laws and/or regulations.
 A. Delegated Examining.
 B. Merit Promotion and Placement.
 C. Excepted Service Authorities.
 D. Priority consideration/placement programs.
 E. Veterans' preference.
 F. Hiring Flexibilities (e.g. Direct Hire).
 G. Qualification and eligibility requirements.
 H. Job Analysis and Assessment Processes.
 I. Reduction in Force/workforce restructuring.
 J. None of the above.
4. Select the answer(s) that describes your experience with position classification and position management. Select only those areas in which you have experience in applying HR laws and/or regulations.
 A. Developing and revising federal position descriptions.
 B. Evaluating position descriptions to classify work with the appropriate job title, series, and grade against OPM classification Standards.
 C. Making Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) determinations.
 D. Performing desk audits.
 E. Conducting classification studies.
 F. Supporting management in structuring work efficiently.
 G. Reviewing and approving organizational changes/reorganizations.
 H. None of the above.
5. Please indicate which of the following represents your level of experience pertaining to your role in the development of HR policy, procedures, or techniques.
 A. Exchange routine information or respond to data requests.
 B. Voluntarily take a leadership role on the team, helping to shape the purpose and scope of the workgroup.
 C. Negotiate among participants with differing interests to gain agreement on changes affecting the final product.
 D. Resolve group conflicts by persuading others to accept personally developed HR policy proposals related to new procedures, processes, or techniques.
 E. None of the above.
6. Please indicate which of the following action(s) you have successfully performed in an HR environment. Select all that apply.
 A. Develop recommendations or options based on quantitative and qualitative data analysis.
 B. Consider relevant facts and information, potential risks and benefits, and available alternatives when making decisions.
 C. Proactively identifying process or program improvements prior to problem identification.
 D. Effectively utilize technology or automated solutions to successfully resolve a problem.
 E. Evaluate the effectiveness of program operations in meeting established goals and objectives.
 F. None of the above.
7. Please indicate which of the following represent(s) your experience identifying and analyzing HR problems and providing solutions. Select all that apply.
 A. Interpret and apply statutes and regulations to resolve already identified HR problems and issues
 B. Identify and analyze HR problems and issues and develop detailed position papers to outline the issue and recommended action.
 C. Use qualitative data and analytic tools to identify problems.
 D. Developed HR policies or component bureau-wide or company-wide guidance to support the organization's goals and objectives.
 E. None of the above.
8. Please indicate which of the following represent the highest level of experience communicating orally as a regular part of your job in an HR environment.
 A. I have facilitated meetings to promote active discussion and participation.
 B. I have delivered persuasive oral presentations to internal and external audiences that are unfamiliar with the subject.
 C. I have conducted inquiries by phone or in-person to gather data.
 D. I have delivered information briefings on detailed, technical regulations, policies, or procedures.
 E. I have had experience orally negotiating in adversarial settings or with confrontational individuals or groups.
 F. None of the above.
9. Please indicate which of the following represents the highest level of experience developing written products as a regular part of your job in an HR environment.
 A. I have written issue papers or position papers, including analysis and recommendations, on significant and detailed HR topics.
 B. I have written policy guidance on HR issues.
 C. I have written agency/company responses to OPM, or other third parties (i.e. MSPB, OSC) on detailed HR topics.
 D. I have written presentation or briefing materials, including "talking points" for senior officials, on detailed HR topics.
 E. I have written Department/Agency-wide, or company-wide, HR policies.
 F. None of the above.
10. Please indicate which of the following represents the highest level of experience developing authoritative policy relating to recruitment/placement, talent acquisition, outreach, and special placement programs.
 A. I have implemented recruitment/placement, talent acquisition, outreach, and special placement programs policies that affect multiple HR Offices.
 B. I have collaborated with others identifying HR policy needs executing recruitment/placement, talent acquisition, outreach, and special placement programs policy that affect a single HR Office.
 C. I have planned, developed, and lead the implementation recruitment/placement, talent acquisition, outreach, and special placement programs policy that affect multiple HR Offices.
 D. I have planned, developed and lead the implementation of recruitment/placement, talent acquisition, outreach, and special placement programs policy impacting multiple HR Offices, and requiring extensive coordination with other program offices.
 E. None of the above.
11. Please indicate which of the following represents the highest level of experience developing agency or bureau policy relating to position management and position classification.
 A. I have implemented position classification and position management policies that affect multiple HR Offices.
 B. I have collaborated with others identifying HR policy needs executing position classification policy that affect a single HR Office.
 C. I have planned, developed, and lead the implementation position management and position classification policy that affect multiple HR Offices.
 D. I have planned, developed and lead the implementation of position management and position classification policy impacting multiple HR Offices, and requiring extensive coordination with other program offices.
 E. None of the above.
12. Which of the following resource(s) do you predominantly use to research technical questions and develop policies or guidance? Select all that apply.
 A. United States Code.
 B. Code of Federal Regulations.
 C. Executive Orders.
 D. OSC decisions.
 E. MSPB decisions.
 F. EEOC decisions.
 G. Court decision.
 H. Department/Agency policy.
 I. Collective Bargaining Agreement.
 J. Company policy.
 K. None of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected