Position Title
Supervisory HR Specialist (Employee Benefits)
Agency
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives
Announcement Number
25-HRPD-MP-12807807-ADB Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 30, 2025 to Tuesday, October 7, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND you:
have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more; OR
are retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. You must also submit the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.
 Yes
 No


3.
(1) Are you the spouse of an active duty member of the Armed Forces?

-OR-

(2) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating of 100 percent at the time of retirement or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?

-OR-

(3) Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility for option 1 identified above, you must submit a copy of your spouse's active military orders and documentation verifying marriage, for example a marriage certificate.

To verify your eligibility for options 2 and 3 identified above, you must submit the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15 and all supporting documentation identified on that document (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; death certificate and documentation identifying marital status at the time of death; disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service, etc.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy; and
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; and
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency and you have never held the grade or full performance level of this position?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Promotion, Within Grade Increase (i.e. WGI), or Appointment/Conversion SF-50, which shows you were in the competitive service and the highest grade or promotion potential held. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
Highest grade or promotion potential held.
 Yes
 No


6.
Were you formerly employed as a Federal civilian employee on a permanent competitive appointment or did you obtain career-conditional status (and are within 3 years of the date of separation or are a preference eligible)?

OR

Are you currently employed as a permanent Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service?

To verify your eligibility as a current or former Federal civilian employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions. You may need to submit more than one SF-50. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must also reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND
status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


7.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 Yes
 No


8.
Are you a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who:
was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; AND,
served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; AND,
performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; AND,
if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing.
To verify your eligibility, you must provide a copy of all Notification of Personnel Actions, Standard Form 50s (SF-50) and performance appraisals that demonstrates you meet all the requirements outlined in the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act.

 Yes
 No


9.
Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months?

-OR-

Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and is requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student or other experience related to this position?

-OR-

Are you a current or former Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your description of service or other proof of non-competitive eligibility. If you are a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who is requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility, please also provide the necessary documentation to support your request.
 Yes
 No


10.
Are you currently employed as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and you have held a position at the same or higher grade level as this position with the same or higher promotion potential?

OR

Were you formerly employed as a Federal civilian employee on a permanent competitive appointment or have you obtained career-conditional status (and are within 3 years of the date of separation or are a preference eligible) and have you held the same or higher grade as this position with the same or higher promotion potential?

To verify your eligibility as a current or former Federal civilian employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions. You may need to submit more than one SF-50.Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must also reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND
status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).

 Yes
 No


11.
Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management?
 
For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems. 

-OR-

Are you a current:
Postal Career Service Employee;
Postal Rate Commission Employee;
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; or,
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee? 
-OR-

Are you eligible under another Miscellaneous Authority Not Regulated by U.S. Office of Personnel Management?

For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) and/or other documentation reflecting your status and eligibility.

 Yes
 No


12.
Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist showing proof of intellectual, severe physical, or psychiatric disability.
 Yes
 No


13.
Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (Note: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
are entitled to veterans' preference?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Justice (DOJ). Your response to this assessment questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making screening decisions. This is a DOJ job application system. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this application. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration


1.
GS-14 You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade in the federal service which has equipped you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position. Select the choice which best describes your specialized experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-13 level as described in the vacancy announcement under specialized experience requirements.
 I do not meet or exceed the 1 year of specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement.
 Does not meet minimum qualifications


2.
I have expert knowledge and experience in the following areas of Employee Benefits: Check all that apply
 A. Retirement
 B. Compensation
 C. Health Benefits (including Flexible Spending Accounts and Long-Term Care Insurance)
 D. Life Insurance
 E. Employee Recognition
 F. Employee Health Improvement
 G. Child Care/Elder Care
 H. Alternate Work Arrangements/Schedules
 I. None of the above


3.
I have expert knowledge and experience in the following areas of Leave Administration: Check all that apply.
 A. General Annual and Sick Leave Provisions
 B. Family Medical Leave Act
 C. Voluntary Leave Transfer Program
 D. Voluntary Leave Bank Program
 E. Emergency Leave Transfer Program
 F. General Provisions of Military Leave
 G. Home Leave
 H. Leave Restoration
 I. None of the above


4.
I have expert knowledge in the following areas of CSRS and FERS retirement: Check all that apply
 A. Retirement systems coverage
 B. Creditable service (civilian and military)
 C. Law enforcement officer provisions
 D. Disability retirement
 E. Early retirement (VERA/DSR)
 F. Death benefits
 G. None of the above


5.
I have knowledge and experience in the following areas of Employee Benefits: Check all that apply.
 A. Voluntary Leave Bank/Voluntary Leave Transfer Program
 B. Health Benefits (including Flexible Spending Accounts and Long-Term Care Insurance)
 C. Life Insurance
 D. Federal Employee Dental and Vision Program
 E. None of the above


6.
Please select from the following list the response that most accurately reflects your highest level of supervisory experience:
 I served as a senior member of a team of Human Resources Specialists. I was responsible for ensuring the work was completed in an acceptable and timely manner.
 I have served as a Team Leader in a human resources program. I was responsible for assigning work to subordinate staff, providing guidance and training, and ensuring the work was completed in an acceptable and timely manner.
 I have served as a supervisor in a human resources program. I was responsible for planning, directing, and assessing the work of the unit, assuring the quality and timeliness of the unit's work, evaluating staff performance, developing staff, and correcting employee conduct or performance issues.
 I have served as a manager in a human resources program. I was responsible for directing, coordinating, and overseeing the work of subordinate supervisors and staff. I established organizational goals and standards.
 I have served as a manager in a human resources program. I was responsible for directing, coordinating, and overseeing the work of subordinate supervisors and staff. I established organizational goals and standards. I had authority to establish or effectively recommend the numbers, types, and grades of positions within the human resources program.
 None of the above


7.
Select the choice(s) that reflect the supervisory/managerial functions you have performed. (Check all that apply).
 A. Adjusted staffing levels or work procedures to accommodate changes in resource allocations.
 B. Assigned work.
 C. Disciplined employees.
 D. Evaluated performance management.
 E. Served as a mentor to lower-level staff.
 F. Performed or arranged for staff training.
 G. Interview candidates and made selection recommendations.
 H. I have performed administrative and human management functions to include establishing work plans and performance expectations; providing formal and informal evaluation of performance; addressing performance issues through formal and informal processes; providing constructive advice and counsel to employees; management personnel actions to include recruitments, details, and recommending employees for promotions and awards.
 I. I have managed staff recruitment, development and work assignments in a manner that increases the overall staff capacity in all competency areas and ensures the appropriate skill sets and training needed to accomplish the mission of the Agency.
 J. None of the above.


8.
Choose the statement that best describes your ability to design and implement strategies that maximize employees' potential and foster high ethical standards in meeting the organization's vision, mission, and goals.
 I have led projects, studies, and/or surveys of human resource programs by managing a team of employees and directing them to a desired outcome/result.
 I have supervised HR professionals and support staff to provide human resources support to the organization.
 I have managed more than one HR functional area (e.g., staffing, performance management), achieving results through people.
 I have managed large or complex, multi-functional/multi-faceted HR programs, and have achieved results through people.
 I have not performed this type of work.


9.
I have knowledge of and experience researching the laws, rules, and regulations which serve as the basis for administering Employee Benefits programs.  (Check all that apply)
 A. Statutes found in Title 5, U.S.C.
 B. Code of Federal Regulations (CFS)
 C. OPM regulations and guidance
 D. TSP regulations and guidance
 E. Social Security regulations and guidance
 F. None of the above


10.
Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of laws, regulations and directives. (check all that apply)
 A. To implement programs.
 B. To make recommendations to improve or terminate programs/operations.
 C. To answer questions on procedures, policies, and directives.
 D. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency.
 E. To assist management in formulating and implementing policies and procedures.
 F. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g., policy manuals, guides, training materials).
 G. None of the above.


11.
Which of the following choices best describes your experience with laws, regulations, practices, procedures, and processes?
 I have no experience interpreting laws, regulations, and directives.
 I have had education or training in interpreting laws, regulations, and directives.
 I have interpreted laws, regulations, and directives with supervision.
 I have interpreted laws, regulation, and directives as a part of a team.
 I have independently interpreted laws, regulations, and directives.


12.
Which of the following activities involving the application of laws, regulations, policies and procedures have you been involved in? Check all that apply.

 Interpreting laws and regulations for other parties.
 Determining compliance with laws and regulations.
 I have not been involved in applying laws and regulations.
 Interpreting policies for other parties.
 Determining compliance with policy.
 I have not been involved in applying policy.


13.
Choose the statements that describe your experience in developing written materials Check all that apply
 Develop written materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences.
 Write clearly, logically, concisely, and persuasively for varied audiences.
 Draft policy and procedural material for dissemination to field or operating level components.
 Draft reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity or expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences.
 Explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations.
 Compose complex correspondence or other written work such as manuals, manuals, management reports, or articles.
 Review reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity or expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences.
 Develop comprehensive materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences for Agency departmental leaders, Congress, the media and general public.
 None of the above


14.
Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience solving problems?
 I have no experience solving problems.
 I have experience solving problems that required developing cooperation, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus.
 I have experience solving problems that required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, and interacting with individuals constructively.
 I have experience solving problems that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse individuals and reaching solutions to controversial issues.
 I have experience and/or training in problem solving but have not yet applied this knowledge in a work environment.


15.
Choose the statement that best describes the extent of your experience in interpersonal communication skills that you have performed as a regular part of a job.
 I have communicated with managers and other HR professionals to provide guidance and assistance in resolving difficult HR issues.
 I have communicated with a variety of customers, including senior managers, employees, OPM and NFC staff members to resolve complex and far-reaching HR issues.
 I have communicated with senior executives, managers, and individuals from federal, public and private sectors to recommend, and/or gain acceptance of highly sensitive policies and issues.
 None of the above.


16.
Select the statement below that best describes your experience in providing advisory, consultative, or technical services on performance management principles, concepts, laws, and regulations. Be sure your resume fully describes your qualifying experience and supports your response.

 I have extensive experience performing this activity. I am considered an expert and am able to train or assist others with this activity.
 I have considerable experience performing this activity. I have performed this activity on a regular basis, independently and satisfactorily.
 I have limited experience performing this activity. I have performed this activity infrequently with the guidance of a more experienced peer or supervisor. My work is regularly reviewed while in progress and upon completion.
 I do not have experience performing this activity.


17.
ATF employment is contingent upon a favorable adjudication (decision) of your background investigation. Your conduct and character must demonstrate suitability for the position for which you are applying. Unresolved matters may prevent completion of your background investigation or favorable adjudication of it. If ATF cannot complete your background investigation and adjudicate it, you will be removed from the hiring process. Are you willing to submit to the background investigation process?

 Yes
 No


18.
The Department of Justice requires that you provide proof that for 3 out of the last 5 years you have resided in the United States, worked for the United States in a foreign country in a Federal or U.S. military capacity for 3 out of the last 5 years, and/or been a dependent of a Federal or U.S. military employee in a foreign country for 3 out of the last 5 years. Are you able to provide sufficient documentation to meet this residency requirement?

 Yes
 No


19.
Do any of your relatives work for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives? Include: father; mother; husband; wife; son; daughter; brother; sister; uncle; aunt; first cousin; nephew; niece; father-in-law; mother-in-law; son-in-law; daughter-in-law; brother-in-law; sister-in-law; stepfather; stepmother; stepson; stepdaughter; stepbrother; stepsister; half-brother; and half-sister.

 Yes
 No


20.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙