Position Title
Legal Administrative Specialist
Agency
Immigration and Customs Enforcement
Announcement Number
OPM-OPLA-12793703-DHA-EKS Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 5, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or higher than the grade level of the vacancy
the promotion potential (full performance level) of the position you are being separated from is equal to or higher than the promotion potential of the vacancy, and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?
If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or higher than the grade level of the vacancy
the promotion potential (full performance level) of the position you are being separated from is equal to or higher than the promotion potential of the vacancy, and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Birmingham, AL
 B. Eloy, AZ
 C. Florence, AZ
 D. Phoenix, AZ
 E. Tucson, AZ
 F. Adelanto, CA
 G. Concord, CA
 H. El Centro, CA
 I. Los Angeles, CA
 J. Otay, CA
 K. Sacramento, CA
 L. San Diego, CA
 M. San Francisco, CA
 N. Santa Ana, CA
 O. Van Nuys, CA
 P. Centennial, CO
 Q. Denver, CO
 R. Hartford, CT
 S. District of Columbia, DC
 T. Fort Lauderdale, FL
 U. Fort Myers, FL
 V. Jacksonville, FL
 W. Miami, FL
 X. Orlando, FL
 Y. Pompano Beach, FL
 Z. Tampa, FL
 AA. Atlanta, GA
 AB. Lumpkin, GA
 AC. Honolulu, HI
 AD. Boise, ID
 AE. Chicago, IL
 AF. Indianapolis, IN
 AG. Des Moines, IA
 AH. Louisville, KY
 AI. Baton Rouge, LA
 AJ. Jena, LA
 AK. New Orleans, LA
 AL. Oakdale, LA
 AM. Baltimore, MD
 AN. Hyattsville, MD
 AO. Boston, MA
 AP. Chelmsford, MA
 AQ. Detroit, MI
 AR. Grand Rapids, MI
 AS. Minneapolis, MN
 AT. Saint Paul, MN
 AU. Kansas City, MO
 AV. Saint Louis, MO
 AW. Omaha, NE
 AX. Las Vegas, NV
 AY. Elizabeth, NJ
 AZ. Newark, NJ
 BA. Chaparral, NM
 BB. Batavia, NY
 BC. Brooklyn, NY
 BD. Buffalo, NY
 BE. Nassau County, NY
 BF. New York, NY
 BG. Newburgh, NY
 BH. Suffolk County, NY
 BI. Charlotte, NC
 BJ. Raleigh, NC
 BK. Brooklyn Heights, OH
 BL. Cleveland, OH
 BM. Columbus, OH
 BN. Oklahoma City, OK
 BO. Portland, OR
 BP. Philadelphia, PA
 BQ. Pittsburgh, PA
 BR. York, PA
 BS. San Juan, PR
 BT. Charleston, SC
 BU. Columbia, SC
 BV. Memphis, TN
 BW. Nashville, TN
 BX. Conroe, TX
 BY. Dallas, TX
 BZ. Dilley, TX
 CA. El Paso, TX
 CB. Harlingen, TX
 CC. Houston, TX
 CD. Irving, TX
 CE. Laredo, TX
 CF. Los Fresnos, TX
 CG. Pearsall, TX
 CH. San Antonio, TX
 CI. Salt Lake City, UT
 CJ. Annandale, VA
 CK. Richmond, VA
 CL. Sterling, VA
 CM. Seattle, WA
 CN. Spokane, WA
 CO. Tacoma, WA
 CP. Milwaukee, WI
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
7
9
11
3. In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Do any of your family members work for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement?

(A family member means an individual with any of the following relationships to the applicant: (1) Spouse, and parents thereof; (2) Sons and daughters, and spouses thereof; (3) Parents, and spouses thereof; (4) Brothers and sisters, and spouses thereof; (5) Grandparents and grandchildren, and spouses thereof; (6) Domestic partner and parents thereof, including domestic partners of any individual in (2) through (5) of this definition; and (7) Any individual related by blood or affinity whose close association with the employee is the equivalent of a family relationship.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. If the answer to the question above is yes, please provide the relative(s)' name, relationship, and the ICE office or organization for which your relative(s) works (if known).If the answer to the question above is no, please indicate 'not applicable'. (limit 1,000 characters) (limit 1,000 characters)
6. I acknowledge that I am solely responsible for the answers and documentation submitted in my online application. I understand that my answers cannot be altered once I have submitted my application and the announcement has closed. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information contained in my online application for Federal Employment is true, correct, complete, and made in good faith. I understand that a false or fraudulent answer to any question or item on any part of my online application may be grounds for not hiring me, or for firing me after I begin work, and may be punishable by fine or imprisonment or both (See section 1001 of title 18, United States Code).

By clicking "Yes" below, I certify that I accept responsibility for the responses and documentation submitted in my online application and that the information I have provided is true to the best of my knowledge.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
The following questions will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for the GS-07 grade level.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience at the GS-05 grade level or equivalent performing duties such as: 1)Performing a variety of legal administrative support activities for attorneys involved in litigation or other law related activities; 2) Assisting with tracking court dockets, cases, hearings, depositions and/or other legal administrative matters; AND 3) Assisting with the preparation and maintenance of case files, both hard copy and electronic.
 B. I have successfully completed one full academic year of graduate-level education in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 C. I have successfully completed all the requirements for a bachelor?s degree and am claiming Superior Academic Achievement. In order to be creditable under this provision, Superior Academic Achievement must have been gained in a curriculum that is qualifying for the position to be filled. Superior Academic Achievement is based on: (1) Class Standing - You must be in the upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration, based on completed courses; OR (2) Grade-Point Average (G.P.A.) - You must have a gradepoint average of either (a) 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) as recorded on your official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or (b) 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum.; OR (3) Honor Society Membership - You may be considered eligible based on membership in one of the approved national scholastic honor societies listed by the Association of College Honor Societies (https://www.achsnatl.org/). (NOTE: You must attach a copy of your transcripts and/or verification of class standing for further verification.)
 D. I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have some graduate education as described in B, but less than the required one year. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 E. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
2. From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for the GS-09 grade level.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent performing duties such as: 1) Providing legal support in drafting, reviewing, and processing of legal documents; 2) Gathering, organizing, or analyzing data to support the litigation of a variety of cases or the provision of legal advice to clients and other entities; AND 3) Performing a variety of legal administrative support activities for attorneys involved in litigation or other law related activities.
 B. I have successfully completed a master?s or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B or J.D. in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 C. I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least one year of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required two years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year (total graduate semester hours minus 18) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 D. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
3. From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for the GS-11 grade level.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service, performing duties such as: 1) Researching, gathering, and organizing information from varied sources to prepare for use in support of the litigation of cases and other legal proceedings; 2) Performing a variety of administrative duties to support attorneys including use of administrative tracking systems, reviewing court packets, and court docket management; AND 3) Providing legal support to attorneys in the drafting, editing, or review of motions, briefs, requests for discovery and other general correspondence.
 B. I have successfully completed a Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M. in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 C. I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least two years of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required three years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the second year (total graduate semester hours minus 36) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 D. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected