Position Title
Management and Program Analyst (Fire Business) - Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Interior, Bureau of Indian Affairs
Announcement Number
DHA-25-12760166-CBXH-DN Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 9, 2025 to Thursday, July 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This position is subject to the Indian Preference Act of 1934 (25 U.S.C. 472), which affords employment preference to qualified Native American candidates.  Proof of eligibility, in the form of a completed Verification of Indian Preference, BIA - 4432 Form, must be provided with your application by the closing date to be granted such preference.  

Are you claiming Indian Preference, and submitting your BIA-4432 Form?
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
11
12
Assessment 1
Preference in filling vacancies is given to qualified Indian candidates in accordance with the Indian Preference Act of 1934 (Title 25, USC, Section 472). Verification of Form BIA-4432 must be submitted with the application if claiming Indian Preference
1. Are you submitting Form BIA-4432, Verification of Indian Preference for Employment in the Bureau of Indian Affairs, to claim Indian Preference? Note: You must include your Form BIA-4432. As outlined in the vacancy announcement, this is the ONLY Indian Preference Verification Form that will be accepted.
 A. Yes, I am submitting Form BIA-4432.
 B. No, I am not claiming Indian preference.
This position has been designated as an Incidental Operator under the Indian Affairs Motor Vehicle Safety Program and requires the incumbent to operate a motor vehicle in order to properly carry out his/her assigned duties but whose principal duties are not operating a motor vehicle and his/her position is not classified as a motor vehicle operator. The incumbent will be required annually to acknowledge and certify possession of a valid state driver's license.
2. Do you possess a valid Driver's License?
 A. Yes, I certify that I possess a valid Driver’s License.
 B. No, I do not possess a valid Driver’s License.
You must meet the specialized experience requirements for GS-0343 comparable in scope and responsibility to the next lower level in the federal service. Please note that your answers may be verified against the information you provide in your resume/application and information your references provide. The quality, type, and scope of your experience and/or training must demonstrate that you are fully qualified to perform the duties of the position to be filled. Be sure you describe your background as it relates to the duties of this position since your application or resume must support the response you select. In addition, if qualifying based on education, you must submit a complete, legible copy of your official college or university transcript(s) with your application to document academic achievements and receive credit.
3. Carefully read the following descriptions of experience and/or education. Select the one that best describes your qualifications for GS-12 Management & Program Analyst (Fire Business) position. Make sure your resume supports your response that you select,
 A. I have at least 1 year of specialized experience or the equivalent, comparable to at least the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service (obtained either in the private or public sectors) performing the following: (1) Analyzing and evaluating the effectiveness and efficiency of program operations and/or administrative support functions to recommend improvement solutions to substantive/multifaceted issues; (2) Developing new or modified work methods, organizational structures, and/or management operations; (3) Analyzing organizational policies and operating programs to determine the impact of changes on programs or work operations; (4) Reviewing and analyzing data to determine program effectiveness in attaining goals and/or to develop program measurement criteria; and (5) Gathering data to provide feedback, prepare reports, and/or to present briefings.
 B. None of the above describes my qualifications for this position, but I am eager to learn.
4. Carefully read the following descriptions of experience and/or education. Select the one that best describes your qualifications for the GS-11 Management & Program Analyst (Fire Business) position.  Make sure your resume supports your response that you select. If qualifying based on education, you must submit a complete, legible copy of your official college or university transcript(s) with your application to document academic achievements and receive credit.
 A. I qualify for the GS-11 level. I have one full year of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-9 grade level in the Federal service (obtained either in the private or public sectors) performing the following: (1) Analyzing and evaluating the effectiveness and efficiency of program operations and/or administrative support functions to recommend improvement solutions to work unit level issues; (2) Developing new or modified work methods; (3) Analyzing local policies and programs to determine the impact of changes on programs or work operations; (4) Reviewing and analyzing data to determine program effectiveness in attaining goals and/or to develop program measurement criteria; and (5) Gathering data to provide feedback, prepare reports, and/or to present briefings
 B. I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree; OR 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree; OR LL.M., in a field that is directly related to this position.
 C. I have an equivalent combination of specialized experience and graduate level education as described above. (To calculate, first take the number of semester hours or equivalent earned towards a graduate degree, in excess of 36 semester hours, and divide by 18 semester hours or equivalent. Then take the number of months of experience and divide by 12 months. Add the percentages together. The total must equal at least 100 percent to qualify). ). Note: You must submit a copy of your college transcripts (official or unofficial) AND your resume must demonstrate how you meet this requirement, otherwise you may be found ineligible.
 D. None of the above describes my qualifications for this position, but I am eager to learn.
5. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected