Position Title
Audiologist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSZ-12750976-25-PS Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, June 23, 2025 to Monday, July 7, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
3. What is the highest grade you have held on a non-temporary basis in the federal service? If you have never held a federal position, please type "N/A".
4. What was the start and end (if applicable) date of promotion/appointment for the highest grade held above? Your response will assist in verifying the time in grade requirement if applicable to this position. If you have never held a federal position, please type "N/A".
Assessment 1
Assessment Questionnaire:  Select a response for each question below.
1. English Language Proficiency. Audiologist candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Education:  
Doctor of Audiology (AUD) from an audiology program recognized by the Accreditation Commission for Audiology Education (ACAE) or Council on Academic Accreditation (CAA) of the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA). HR office staff and management officials may verify a program's accreditation from ACAE at acaeaccred.org and CAA at caa.asha.org.

OR,

       2. Other doctoral degree in hearing science or a directly related field from an institution accredited by an accrediting institution recognized by the U.S. Department of Education.

NOTE: Effective January 1, 2007, the CAA in Audiology and Speech- Language Pathology of ASHA accredits only doctoral degree or AUD programs in audiology. 

Do you meet this requirement and did you provide a copy of your transcripts.  
 A. Yes, I have a Doctor of Audiology (AUD) from an audiology program recognized by the Accreditation Commission for Audiology Education (ACAE) or Council on Academic Accreditation (CAA) of the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA).
 B. Yes, I have a doctoral degree in hearing science or a directly related field from an institution accredited by an accrediting institution recognized by the U.S. Department of Education.
 C. No, I do not meet the degree requirement above.
3. Provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your education.

Name of Institution:
City and State:
Level of Education (diploma, degree, etc.):
Month and Year conferred:
4. Licensure:  Individuals must hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice audiology at the doctoral level in a United States state, territory, commonwealth, or the District of Columbia.

Exception for Non-Licensed Audiologist.
(a)    Non-Licensed applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for licensure, may be given a temporary appointment as a graduate audiologist at the GS-11 grade under the authority of 38 U.S.C. §
7405(c)(2).
(b)    Non-Licensed individuals shall only provide care under the supervision of a fully licensed audiologists at or above the full performance level.
(c)    Non-Licensed individuals may only be appointed at the entry level and may not be promoted/converted to the GS-12 grade level until licensure is obtained.
(d)    Temporary appointments of non-Licensed audiologists may not be extended beyond two years or be converted to a new temporary appointment.

Do you meet this requirement and did you provide a copy of your license with your application?
 A. Yes, I meet the requirement.
 B. No, I do not possess a license but I meet the exception for Non-Licensed Audiologist at the GS-11 grade level.
 C. No, I do not meet the requirements above.
5. Provide the following information regarding your Audiology licensure.

Name on License:
Issuing state or territory:
Complete license number:
Expiration date:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
6. GS-11 Grade Determination: Experience, Education, and Licensure. None Beyond the basic Requirements.  The candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Knowledge of principles and techniques in the assessment and treatment of auditory and balance disorders.
Ability to perform functions associated with contemporary audiology scope of practice as defined by the American Academy of Audiology or the ASHA.
Ability to interact with patients, families, and other health care professionals


Do you meet this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. GS-12 Grade Determination: 

a) Experience: In addition to the requirements at the GS-11 level, completion of one year of professional experience comparable to the next lower grade level is required.     

Examples of experience include but not limited to:  Examples of experience include but not limited to: Performing audiology assessment and treatment intervention, functions associated with contemporary audiology scope of practice; interacts with patients, families, and other health care professionals, and working knowledge of anatomy, physiology, acoustics, applied acoustics, communication, psychoacoustics, and auditory/vestibular pathophysiology.

b) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs): In addition to the KSAs required at the GS-11 grade level, the following KSAs are required:

1. Skill in determining nature, type, and severity of hearing/communication/vestibular disorders.
2. Skill in counseling patients and family members regarding management of hearing/communication/vestibular disorders.
3. Ability to provide professional advice and consultation in areas related to professional audiology to other health care professionals.
4. Ability to independently apply professional contemporary audiologic treatments to the full range of patient populations.

Do you meet the grade requirement for the GS-12 level and it is annotated within your resume?
 A. Yes, I have completed one year of professional experience comparable to the next lower grade level (GS-11).
 B. No, I do not possess the 1 year experience as a GS-11 required for this position and therefore, I am not eligible for further consideration.
Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title (Include grade for Federal positions) Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2013 to April 2014) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
TRANSCRIPT REMINDER- If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action (for Eligibility):

If you are a current federal employee, you must attach your most recent SF-50. This SF-50 must have an effective date of no more than one year ago and must show your current position, grade, and step. Award SF-50s typically do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted if they do not include Grade and Step.

SF-50s are available in your eOPF. If you having issues accessing your eOPF please reach out to your local HR Office for assistance.

 Examples of appropriate SF-50s include:
Within grade increases at the highest grade held
General Adjustments from consecutive years
Promotions with an effective date more than one year old
SF-50s at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old 
General Adjustment from within the past 12 months
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected