Position Title
Lead Interdisciplinary
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDB-26-12820199-DHA-R Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 31, 2025 to Friday, November 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0808 - Architecture
 B. 0810 - Civil Engineering
 C. 0819 - Environmental Engineering
 D. 0830 - Mechanical Engineering
 E. 0850 - Electrical Engineering


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 Yes
 No


2.
Appointment to this position is subject to a one year probationary period unless the appointee has previously met the requirements as described in 5 CFR Part 315. While probationary the incumbent can be terminated with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a one year probationary period?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 25% of the time or less. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 25% of the time or less?
 Yes
 No


4.
The duties of this position require the incumbent to possess and maintain a current, active, valid and unrestricted registration Professional Engineer (PE) or Architect Registration in one of the 50 U.S. states, the District of Columbia, or a territory of the United States.

Do you have a valid and unrestricted license as a Professional Engineer (PE) or Architect Registration in a state, the District of Columbia, or a territory of the United States?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Thank you for your interest in the Lead Interdisciplinary GS-14 position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the EDUCATION that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of the Lead Interdisciplinary ENGINEER Series 0810, 0819, 0830 0850 at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor?s degree (or higher degree) in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET); OR (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I am currently registered as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensed as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. Absent other means of qualifying under this standard, those applicants who achieved such registration by means other than written test (e.g., State grandfather or eminence provisions) are eligible only for positions that are within or closely related to the specialty field of their registration. For example, an applicant who attains registration through a State Board's eminence provision as a manufacturing engineer typically would be rated eligible only for manufacturing engineering positions. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts, AND proof of registration as an Engineer Intern (EI) or Engineer in Training (EIT) or copy of your Professional Engineer (PE) license.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination, or any other written test required for professional registration, by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts, AND proof of passing the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or other written test required for professional registration.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed at least 60 semester hours or 90 quarter hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences that included the courses specified in A above. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field, e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, and have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions. (The above examples of related curricula are not all-inclusive.) (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the EDUCATION that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Lead Interdisciplinary ARCHITECT, Series 0808 at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher) in architecture, or a related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 30 semester hours were in architectural design, and (2) 6 semester hours were in each of the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of construction, and environmental control systems. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the arts and sciences underlying professional architecture, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the architectural principles, methods, and techniques and their applications to the design and construction or improvement of buildings. I have a degree in architectural engineering which provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities substantially equivalent to those provided in the courses specified in A above. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the arts and sciences underlying professional architecture, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the architectural principles, methods, and techniques and their applications to the design and construction or improvement of buildings. I have one year of experience working in an architect?s office or in architectural work, which provided me with a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional architecture, for each year short of graduation from a program of study in architecture. In the absence of college courses, I have five years of such experience. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statement.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the EXPERIENCE that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Lead Interdisciplinary at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized EXPERIENCE equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service which includes: managing civil works projects (e.g., navigation, buildings, bridges, dams) to meet cost, schedule, and quality goals AND leading or supervising teams (e.g., project managers, engineers) to deliver complex engineering projects (e.g., flood management, water resources) AND resolving issues related to project integrity, compliance, and stakeholders, while reporting updates to leadership and stakeholders (e.g., U.S. Congress, local governments, contractors).
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


SELECTIVE PLACEMENT FACTOR INSTRUCTIONS: This position has selective placement factor which must be met prior to employment and for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
The duties of this position require the incumbent to possess and maintain a current, active, valid and unrestricted registration Professional Engineer (PE) or Architect Registration in one of the 50 U.S. states, the District of Columbia, or a territory of the United States. Do you have a valid and unrestricted license as a Professional Engineer (PE) or Architect Registration in a state, the District of Columbia, or a territory of the United States?
 Yes
 No


5.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙