Position Title
Supervisory Emergency Management Specialist
Agency
Federal Emergency Management Agency
Announcement Number
FEMA-KR-12803772-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 19, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. The following questions will be used to determine your eligibility for consideration under this job opportunity announcement. Please select YES to all eligibility question(s) which apply.

If you're uncertain you meet an eligibility, we suggest answering yes. Your application will only be considered under the applicable eligibilities you have selected. If you respond NO to all eligibility questions below, your application will not be considered under this announcement.

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration for EACH selected eligibility. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will not be considered.
1. Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)

Are you a current or former FEMA Stafford Act employee eligible under the Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)?

Current and former FEMA Stafford Act employees who can document 64 or more hours of paid time, per pay period, with no breaks in service* for 78 or more consecutive pay periods since August 1, 2014, are eligible to be considered for this Merit Promotion Job Opportunity Announcement. (*Note: A "break in service" is defined as 3 or more days in non-pay status, except as allowed under 5 CFR § 315.201(b)(3)(ii) for special circumstances such as military deployment, etc.).

To verify eligibility, you must submit: 
"Notice of DRRA Eligibility" provided by OCHCO.  If you believe you're eligible, but have not received your notice, please reach out to the HR Specialist listed in the announcement.
Your FEMA SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your appointment in the excepted service under the Stafford Act.  We recommend attaching a SF-50 which indicates your highest grade and step.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Current FEMA Employee

Are you a current FEMA employee who currently holds OR has previously held a permanent (not time limited) position in the competitive service?

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your permanent competitive status.  Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions.  You may need to submit more than one SF-50.  Your SF-50 must reflect:
Block 24 - Tenure:  1 - Permanent (career) or 2 - Conditional: AND
Block 34 - Position Occupied:  1 - Competitive Service
If you previously held a career or career conditional appointment, you must provide your current SF-50 and your SF-50 which shows competitive status eligibility.
Please do not submit an award SF-50, as it might not indicate your grade level and step.  
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. FEMA Employees Only Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)
Are you a current or former FEMA employee who is considered displaced or surplus (you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction in Force)?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, your most recent performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. How did you hear about this Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) job opportunity?
 A. USAJOBS
 B. FEMA's Social Media (Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Online Job board (Indeed, Zip Recruiter, etc.)
 D. FEMA.gov Careers Website
 E. FEMA Virtual Hiring Event
 F. FEMA On-Site Hiring Event
 G. College/University/Alumni Organization
 H. FEMA Employee Referral
 I. Other
2. Are you a retiree receiving a federal annuity (either military or civilian)? Or have you accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years? (Select all that apply.)
 A. Yes, I'm receiving a military annuity.
 B. Yes, I'm receiving a civilian annuity.
 C. Yes, I've received a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
 D. No, I am not receiving a federal annuity and have not accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
3. Are you a current FEMA employee?
 A. I'm a current FEMA Local Hire Employee
 B. I'm a current FEMA Reservist Employee
 C. I'm a current FEMA CORE Employee
 D. I'm a current FEMA PFT Employee
 E. I'm a current FEMA Senior Executive Service Employee
 F. I'm not a current FEMA Employee
4. Are you currently serving, or have served within the last five years, as a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) employee in the Executive Branch?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Please provide the following information regarding your political appointment(s): 1. Official Title of Position; 2. Type of Appointment (i.e. Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career SES); 3. Name of Agency; 4. Date Position began; and 5. Date Position ended. (NOTE: If you have never held a political appointment, please enter N/A.)
6. Within the past five years, have you received a buyout or payment through the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment Authority (VSIP) when separating from a federal position?
 A. No
 B. Yes, and I understand candidates who are reemployed with the federal government within five years after receiving a buyout or payment under VSIP are required to repay the entire amount of the incentive prior to their onboarding date.
7. Did you elect to voluntarily resign or retire through the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) or Workforce Transition Program (WTP)
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. The following questions will be used for consideration of your application under this job opportunity announcement. Please select yes to all Conditions of Employment that you understand and agree too. Please review your responses for accuracy. Answers cannot be changed after the announcement closes.

1. If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?

Select "Not Applicable" if this question does not apply to you.
 A. Yes
 B. No, but I have an exemption
 C. I am a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, and have NOT registered with the Selective Service System and do NOT have an exemption.
 D. Not Applicable
2. All FEMA employees are subject to 24-hour on-call in the event of an emergency and all Federal employees may be subject to emergency deployment. In the event of an emergency deployment, travel requirements may be extensive in nature (weeks to months), with little advance notice, and may require relocation to emergency sites, some of which are quite austere. The length of deployment may last anywhere from days to months, depending upon the nature of the emergency or disaster.

Every FEMA employee is considered an emergency manager and each employee has regular and recurring emergency management responsibilities, although not every position requires routine deployment to disaster sites. Your emergency management duties may vary depending on the needs of the Agency, your particular skills, and certain personal circumstances. All positions may require irregular work hours, work at locations other than the official duty station, and may include duties other than those specified in the employee's official position description.

Are you able to meet this commitment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

In order to be hired for this position, applicants must undergo and successfully pass a background investigation. This may include a review of financial issues, such as delinquency, child support and/or tax obligations, as well as certain criminal offenses and illegal use of or possession of drugs.

Are you willing to undergo a background investigation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Your responses to the questions below will be used in the evaluation of your qualifications for this position. Your resume and application materials must support the level of experience and/or education you claim in this questionnaire, if after a complete review of your application package, a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications, you may be rated ineligible for this position.
1. Grade 13: Do you have one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the GS-12 level, as described in the vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Please indicate where and when you obtained each of the specialized experience requirements listed in the Qualifications section of this Job Opportunity Announcement. Include in your response: (1) the area of specialized experience; (2) the place of employment; and, (3) the specific dates of employment the experience was gained in MM/DD/YYYY - MM/DD/YYYY format. Your response must be supported by your resume.

Example: Experience in developing and delivering presentations and training; ABC Company; 10/01/2016 - 05/15/2018.
3. From the list below, identify the project management related task(s) you have used in order to complete assigned projects.
 A. I have recommended project requirements.
 B. I have monitored set project priorities.
 C. I have met short- and long-term project goals assigned to me.
 D. I have developed project schedule and milestones to ensure assigned project tasks are completed timely.
 E. I have assisted in tracking and managing budgets of projects.
 F. I have monitored assigned project task(s) progress to ensure that the project objectives are met.
 G. I have assisted in monitoring contractor performance.
 H. I have reviewed lessons learned.
 I. None of the above.
4. From the list below, select the statement(s) that describe(s) your experience interpreting and communicating policies, procedures, regulations, program research and policy analysis with internal and external stakeholders.
 A. I have experience developing and implementing a communications strategy for policies, procedures, business plans, and departmental activities.
 B. I have experience interpreting, and effectively communicating policies, procedures, and regulations.
 C. I have experience preparing oral and written reports and presentations, with collateral materials to support the understanding of policies, procedures and regulations (i.e., graphs, charts, and reports that are clear concise and effective).
 D. I have experience developing complex analytical documents evaluating programs or policies.
 E. I have experience developing policy guidance notices, procedures, briefing papers or talking points for senior managers.
 F. I have developed research papers that analyze various industry practices around specific programs or policies.
 G. None of the above.
5. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your knowledge and ability to collect, review and analyze organizational information and reports to support management decision making, derive solutions or recommend process improvements.
 A. I have had training in collection and analysis of organizational information to support decision making, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 B. I have collected and reviewed information to support required management decision making and have prepared recommendations for process improvements, with knowledge of management principles and techniques.
 C. I have experience extracting prepared reports from automated systems or historical records, and analyzing data in accordance with prescribed guidance for decision making and process improvement purposes.
 D. I have extensive knowledge of and experience in administering organizational reviews and analyzing trends to determine process improvements or remedial actions and have knowledge of and experience in applying organizational management principles and techniques to support senior management decision making.
 E. I have not had any training or experience in performing this task.
6. From the list below, select the statement which best describes your experience utilizing interpersonal communication skills during interactions with others.
 A. I have dealt with individuals who were difficult, hostile or distressed.
 B. I have succeed in interaction and working with multiple levels of coworkers and supervisors.
 C. I have identified and responded to critical emergency management events with diplomacy and action.
 D. I have experience communicating with senior management.
 E. I have guided individuals (subordinates, peers, superiors) or groups toward task accomplishment.
 F. I have maintained effectiveness in varying environments and with varying task, responsibilities or people.
 G. I have negotiated with others to reach agreement, settlement, consensus, compliance, or a solution.
 H. I have not utilized my interpersonal communication skills in the manner described above.
7. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) the communication activities you have performed on a regular or recurring basis at work.
 A. I have met with outside organizations, executive officials, clients, or customers to present technical information.
 B. I have represented a business line or organization at meetings as a subject matter expert.
 C. I have responded to complex requests from colleagues, managers, or clients.
 D. I have acted as primary liaison to another unit, department, or organization.
 E. I have prepared final responses to public inquiries.
 F. None of the above.
8. From the following choices, identify those that reflect your experience in the area of customer service.
 A. Coordinated/conducted meetings with managers and staff to ensure customer needs are met.
 B. Evaluated and modified the services to improve and ensure quality customer service.
 C. Directly investigated and resolved customer issues.
 D. Provided customer service that was favorably recognized by a colleague, supervisor, or customer.
 E. None of the above.
9. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience building relationships to represent your organization.
 A. I have communicated with individuals from other organizations to build networks.
 B. I have coordinated efforts with individuals from other organizations to conduct events.
 C. I have coordinated with personnel from other organizations to discuss shared goals and/or promote collaborative work processes.
 D. None of the above.
10. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describes your experience working with others to achieve team goals.
 A. I have coordinated assignments for project team members based on factors such as project requirements, strengths, and competing workloads.
 B. I have coordinated efforts with project team members in preparing communication materials.
 C. I have promoted cooperation among project team members from varied backgrounds and/or organizations.
 D. I have provided assistance to one or more work team members by completing their tasks when they had a heavy workload.
 E. I have volunteered for assignments during team meetings.
 F. None of the above.
11. Have you managed large groups of employees working toward multiple tasks?
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. From the list below, select the statements that describe your ability to complete leader tasks. Select all that apply
 A. Oversaw, directed or developed work to be accomplished by co-workers
 B. Prepared schedules for completion of work
 C. Assigned work to co-workers based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees
 D. Gave advice, counsel or instruction to employees on both work and administrative matters
 E. Inspected the work performed by co-workers and kept supervisor informed of outcome.
 F. None of the above.
13. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describes the leadership roles you have held.
 A. I have led a project team.
 B. I have temporarily served as an acting supervisor while my supervisor was unavailable.
 C. I have served as the official supervisor of a work unit or department.
 D. I have served as the official supervisor of multiple work units or departments.
 E. None of the above.
14. Please take this opportunity to review your question responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you understand this statement, have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected