Position Title
Cartographer
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
USBP-IMP-12754323-LRW Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 2, 2025 to Friday, August 1, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1.
Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from DHS?  If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under non-temporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
3. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
4. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
5. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
6. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-13 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes cartographic mapping, surveying, geodesic, and related sciences, and relevant mathematics and statistics to plan, design, construct, evaluate, and modify mapping and charting systems; performing geospatial data management functions for national-level datasets to include data identification, compilation, modification, analysis, maintenance, distribution, archiving and metadata attribution; identifying, reviewing and evaluating large volumes of sensitive and complex tactical geospatial and intelligence data pertaining to Agency initiatives; maintaining awareness of latest technologies for applicable geospatial projects to be able to present and/or demonstrate mapping and geospatial expertise to field components.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
7. The following question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the Mandatory Basic Requirement for this position.  You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following statements best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the basic requirement for this position?
 A. I have a degree in cartography; or a major that included or was supplemented by at least 30 semester hours in cartography and/or directly related science, and related mathematics. Such course work includes, but is not limited to, cartography, astronomy, geodesy, photogrammetry, physical and geological oceanography, computer science, land surveying, geophysics, physical geography, and remote sensing. The 30 semester hours must have included at least 6, but no more than 15, semester hours of college level, non-business mathematics or statistics (i.e., college level algebra, trigonometry, calculus, or scientific mathematics or statistics requiring equivalent college-level courses as prerequisites).
 B. I have a combination of education and experience -- courses equivalent to a major in cartography, or a major that included or was supplemented by at least 30 semester hours in cartography, and/or directly related science, and related mathematics, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 C. I do not possess the education and/or experience listed above.
Assessment 1
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
1. Select the choice that best describes your ability to motivate or guide others toward accomplishing goals.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have served as a team leader and motivated and guided team members in the accomplishment of predetermined goals and objectives.
 C. I have served as a team leader or program manager and I have established group goals and facilitated their accomplishment. I have been responsible for monitoring the work of team members or subordinates and providing any needed guidance, training, or direction.
2. Select the choice that best describes your ability to translate goals into action plans.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have participated in a local process/project to develop action items for an action plan that supported established goals for a specific program area.
 C. I have led a local process/project to develop action items for an action plan that supported established goals for a specific program area.
 D. I have led a process/project for the conversion of agency goals to an action plan for a primary organizational unit or equivalent.
 E. I have overseen the process/project for the conversion of agency goals to action plans. I have monitored these action plans, made appropriate adjustments, and measured goal accomplishment.
3. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of internal and external politics in the work place and your ability to apply this knowledge to situations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have a basic understanding of internal and external politics in the work place.
 C. I have a thorough understanding of internal and external politics in the work place, acquired through on-the-job experience and formal training, and I have routinely applied this knowledge in work situations.
 D. I have expert knowledge of internal and external politics in the work place, acquired from extensive supervisory/managerial experience, and I have applied this knowledge to enhance the effectiveness of my organization.
4. Select the option that best describes your experience in preparing, reviewing work products of others and accepting, rejecting, or amending work products.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have prepared a variety of work products but have little or no experience in reviewing the work products of others.
 C. I have had some experience, gained while serving as a team leader or acting supervisor, in reviewing work products of subordinates and accepting, rejecting, or amending work.
 D. I have had extensive experience, gained as a supervisor or manager, in reviewing work products of subordinates and accepting, rejecting, or amending their work.
5. Select the option that best describes your experience in supporting and implementing changes in policies, procedures, and organizational structure.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have disseminated information to my coworkers about changes in policies, procedures, or organizational structure.
 C. I have worked with my peers to implement changes in policies, procedures, and organizational structure.
 D. I have disseminated information about changes in policies, procedures, and organizational structure to peers or subordinates and explained the impact of these changes.
 E. I have disseminated information about changes in policies, procedures, and organizational structure, explained the impact of these changes to internal and external stakeholders, and ensured that the changes were implemented.
6. Select the option that best describes your experience in improving the efficiency and quality of the work performed.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have made specific changes that have improved my efficiency and the quality of my work.
 C. I have recommended changes that have been adopted by multiple work units and have improved their efficiency and the quality of their work.
 D. I have recommended specific changes that have improved my work unit's efficiency and the quality of its work.
7. Select the choice that best describes your experience managing several simultaneous, interrelated projects.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have been responsible for managing a few, routine projects within my office.
 C. I have had experience managing a number and variety of simultaneous, interrelated projects within my office or with other agencies/offices.
 D. I have had extensive experience managing simultaneous, interrelated, highly complex projects across offices/agencies.
8. Select the option that best describes your experience in establishing and adjusting priorities for work.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have carried out work assignments that have been prioritized by others.
 C. I have established priorities for my own work and I have made adjustments to accommodate planned changes or to comply with new procedures.
 D. I have established priorities for a team or group project and I have made adjustments to accommodate unexpected changes in project resources or goals or unanticipated changes in the workplace.
 E. I have established priorities for projects involving multiple teams or organizations and I have made adjustments to accommodate sudden major changes, problems, or setbacks.
9. Indicate the extent to which you have gathered and analyzed facts, determined the accuracy of the data, defined the problem, and identified solutions.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have gathered data/information in preparation for analysis by others.
 C. I have gathered data/information, analyzed it, and summarized the results of my findings.
 D. I have gathered data/information, performed analyses, summarized results, and identified problem areas.
 E. I have gathered statistical data and narrative information, performed analyses, summarized results, identified problem areas, and proposed/implemented solutions.
10. Select the option that best describes your experience in analyzing and integrating various types of geospatial data and information.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have gathered data or information in preparation for analysis by others.
 C. I have compared and correlated technical data and information from multiple sources.
 D. I have evaluated data and information from a wide variety of sources, some of which are in conflict, drawn conclusions as to the meaning of the data, and made specific recommendations to address relevant issues.
11. Select the option that best describes your experience in planning and coordinating geospatial projects or programs.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. Under the close guidance of others, I have developed plans for a project (for example, set timelines, established milestones, identified needed resources).
 C. I have independently planned and coordinated one or more projects that were limited in scope. I have had responsibility for setting timelines, establishing milestones, identifying needed resources, and accomplishing established goals.
 D. I have independently planned and coordinated projects or programs that were broad in scope or were complex, involving multiple entities. I have had responsibility for ensuring that needed resources were provided and for ensuring that project staff established timelines, met milestones, and accomplished goals.
12. Select the option that best describes your experience in analyzing and evaluating geospatial, textual and/or imagery source materials for data integrity, reliability, and validity and preparing/generating source packages for production.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have acquired a basic knowledge through relevant training, but I have not applied this knowledge on the job.
 C. I am fully proficient and have regularly applied this knowledge on the job as part of my regular job duties (for example, receiving and reformatting data in disparate formats, performing thorough data QA/QC and translating data into a well-designed geospatial format).
 D. I have a high degree of expertise and I am frequently consulted by others for my knowledge in this area (for example, training staff, advising) in addition to having extensive experience applying this knowledge on the job.
13. Indicate the extent of your training and experience in analyzing collected source data for applicability, quality, currency, and adequacy of coverage for production.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have acquired a basic knowledge through relevant training, but I have not applied this knowledge on the job.
 C. I am fully proficient and have regularly applied this knowledge on the job as part of my regular job duties (for example researching, selecting, and compiling best-available geospatial data in response to immediate-need requests).
 D. I have a high degree of expertise and I am frequently consulted by others for my knowledge in this area (for example, training staff, advising) in addition to having extensive experience applying this knowledge on the job.
14. Select the option that best describes your experience in analyzing collected source data, ensuring requirements meet general guidelines and standards,and conform to established priorities and production requirements.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have acquired a basic knowledge through relevant training, but I have not applied this knowledge on the job.
 C. I am fully proficient and have regularly applied this knowledge on the job as part of my regular job duties (reviewing geospatial data requirements, maintaining metadata and ensuring established data handling procedures are followed).
 D. I have a high degree of expertise and I am frequently consulted by others for my knowledge in this area (for example, training staff, advising) in addition to having extensive experience applying this knowledge on the job.
15. Select the option that best describes your experience in managing datasets, performing analysis, interpreting data and using various cartography/geospatial databases and technology systems.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have acquired a basic knowledge through relevant training, but I have not applied this knowledge on the job.
 C. I am fully proficient and have regularly applied this knowledge on the job as part of my regular job duties (maintaining large geospatial datasets and associated databases and ensuring that they are represented and analyzed appropriately).
 D. I have a high degree of expertise and I am frequently consulted by others for my knowledge in this area (for example, training staff, advising) in addition to having extensive experience applying this knowledge on the job.
16. Select the option that best describes your experience in developing digital databases, computer application software routines and macros, and determining the optimal methodology to present data (including hardcopy maps, graphical displays, models and reports).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have acquired a basic knowledge through relevant training, but I have not applied this knowledge on the job.
 C. I am fully proficient and have regularly applied this knowledge on the job as part of my regular job duties (for example, writing macros or creating maps ).
 D. I have a high degree of expertise and I am frequently consulted by others for my knowledge in this area (for example, training staff, advising on novel or complex determinations) in addition to having extensive experience applying this knowledge on the job.
17. Select the option that best describes your experience researching and analyzing facts, conditions (such as crime demographic and terrain data) or other forms of data to draw conclusions and make recommendations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have reviewed documents for accuracy of data and accumulated, analyzed, interpreted, and reported data. I have independently resolved data inconsistencies or relatively complex problems or issues.
 C. I have reviewed and interpreted statistical reports or automated system outputs of a routine nature and made recommendations.
18. Select the choice that best describes your ability to use word processing, spreadsheet, and database software (for example, Microsoft Access, Word, Excel).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have used appropriate software to access and retrieve data, files, or other information to respond to routine inquiries or to disseminate general information.
 C. I have used appropriate software to create, print, and send data, files, or other information in order to compile information, maintain logs, or prepare basic reports.
 D. I have used appropriate software to create, edit, and manipulate data in order to perform statistical analyses, enter comprehensive reports, or design new procedures.
19. Select the choice that best indicates your ability to use geospatial systems and software such as GIS, GPS, ESRI or other digital cartography and geospatial technologies.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have a basic general knowledge of automated systems, but lack experience in using them to obtain data.
 C. I have had experience in using automated systems to obtain data for my own research and analyses.
 D. I have had extensive experience in using automated systems to obtain data for research and analyses. I am frequently asked to advise or train others in the effective use of these systems.
20. Select the choice which best describes your experience in developing and delivering training and Geographic Information Systems (GIS) technical support on job-related issues, tools, and methodologies.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have delivered formal or informal training on non-technical, job-related topics to others.
 C. I have provided informal training on technical, job-related topics to others within my organization.
 D. I have developed and delivered formal training and GIS technical support on technical, job-related topics to others within my organization.
 E. I have developed and delivered formal training and GIS technical support on technical, job-related topics to peers and superiors within my organization and to stakeholders or customers outside of my organization.
21. Indicate the extent of your experience with GIS peripherals that include scanners, plotters, printers, laminators.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have a basic general knowledge of GIS peripherals but lack experience in using them.
 C. I have had some experience in using GIS peripherals.
 D. I have had extensive experience in using GIS peripherals. I am frequently asked to advise or train others in the effective use of these resources.
22. Select the option that best describes your experience with remote sensing practices such as coordinate systems, aerial photography, videography, geo-referencing, and satellite image processing.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have a basic general knowledge of remote sensing practices but lack experience in applying them.
 C. I have had some experience applying remote sensing practices (for example, georeferencing imagery tiles, performing imagery QA/QC, processing and mosiacing multiple images).
 D. I have had extensive experience applying remote sensing practices. I am frequently asked to advise or train others in the effective use of them.
23. Select the option that best describes your experience in utilizing cartographic principles/knowledge, GIS theory, graphic design, mapping, and geospatial pattern identification.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have been an assistant to and observed others who found it necessary to modify standard cartographic practices or adapt techniques to solve some cartography problems.
 C. I have had some experience in modifying standard cartography practices or adapting techniques to solve some cartography problems.
 D. I have had extensive experience in modifying standard cartography practices and adapting techniques to solve a variety of cartography problems.
24. Select the choice that best indicates your ability to communicate orally with people of a wide range of GIS understanding in order to obtain and provide information.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have communicated orally with others in order to obtain or verify information or to provide routine information.
 C. I have communicated orally with supervisors, managers, or office personnel within my organizational structure to notify them of decisions, problems, or further actions needed.
 D. I have given short oral presentations or briefings outside of my organizational structure to convey information on important trends or compliance issues.
 E. I have led briefings or taught courses on highly technical or complex material to audiences such as introductory and/or advanced coursework related to GIS and GPS technologies and theory.
25. Select the choice which best describes your ability to communicate in writing, such as preparing briefs, correspondence, reports, charts, and hardcopy/softcopy presentation materials.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written portions of reports, briefings, information papers, and other documents.
 C. I have independently composed written reports, briefings, information papers, and other complete documents.
 D. I have reviewed and edited reports, documents, records, or other materials to verify completeness, correctness, consistency, compliance, or authenticity, or I have written testimony that presented complex information.
 E. I have reviewed, edited, and approved the written reports, procedures, briefings, or information papers of others, or I have written new policies, procedures, or practices.
26. Select the option that best describes your experience maintaineing effective working relationships with individuals within and outside of your organization.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had routine, limited interaction with individuals within and outside of my organization, such as receiving information from my supervisor or answering straightforward questions or uncomplicated requests for information.
 C. I have interacted with others within and outside of my organization to resolve day-to-day issues and ensure the completion of group projects. I have assisted external customers in clarifying their needs or resolving routine problems.
 D. I have worked on projects that have involved moderately complex interaction with team members or external customers. I have assisted external customers in defining their needs or resolving moderately complex problems.
 E. I have worked on projects that have involved extensive interaction with team members or external customers in complex situations. I have served as a team leader, or have been responsible for negotiating resolutions to group issues.
27. Select the option that best describes your experience in building support for ideas and initiatives inside and outside the organization.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had limited experience in building support for ideas and initiatives inside and outside the organization gained by seeking support for ideas or initiatives under close guidance.
 C. I have sought support for ideas and initiatives with the result that these ideas/initiatives have been included in major recommendations made by others.
 D. I have analyzed the pros and cons of key ideas/initiatives and clearly elucidated these options with the result that the ideas/initiatives were successfully implemented.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected