Position Title
AIRCRAFT MECHANIC (TITLE 32)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-12807128-AF-25-027 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 30, 2025 to Wednesday, October 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required. 

 Yes
 No


Requirements
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCANG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCANG military membership) working at (145 AMXS) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCANG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCANG military membership) working at a NC ANG unit/activity, other than (145 AMXS) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC Air National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently assigned to one of the following: Active Duty Air Force, Air Force Reserve, or a State/Territory Air National Guard other than North Carolina.
 I am not currently assigned to one of the areas listed above.


2.
Are you currently assigned militarily as an Enlisted (E4-E5)?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the Minimum Requirements that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a WG-10 Aircraft Mechanic.
 I HAVE experience or training that has provided the skill to remove and replace aircraft parts, accessories, and components, and to make adjustments and settings according to established specifications and I am skilled in the use of hand tools and test equipment.
 I DO NOT HAVE experience/skills listed above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a WG-10 Aircraft Mechanic.
 I HAVE at least 18 months experience or training in 1) installing, adjusting, aligning, troubleshooting and functionally testing the various major and minor mechanical and pneudraulic systems on an aircraft during overhaul or modification, and 2) experience coordinating the work of other mechanics, and scheduling maintenance to ensure completion of critical actions and optimum workflow and 3) I have the ability to instruct lower graded mechanics.
 I DO NOT HAVE the experience and skill listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙