Position Title
Fitness Specialist
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12816474 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 15, 2025 to Thursday, October 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Sports Specialist (Fitness) position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
What is your highest level of education and or experience?
 I have an undergraduate or graduate degree with a major in physical education.
 I have at least 1-year specialized experience in providing certified group exercise instruction or certified personal training.
 I have a High School Diploma AND a certification from the National Commission for Certifying Agencies (NCCA) or Distance Education Accrediting.
 I have an equivalent combination of education and experience.
 I have none of the above.


2.
Do you have a current specialty certification relevant to the program area (e.g., Step, Cycle, Water Aerobics, Personal Training)? (Must attach to get credit.)
 I have 3+ additional specialty certifications.
 I have 2+ additional specialty certifications.
 I have 1+ additional specialty certifications.
 I have no additional specialty certifications.


3.
Do you have a current fitness instructor or personal trainer certification from an accredited health/fitness organization (must upload copy of certification for consideration). Recognized primary certifications are from National Commission for Certifying Agencies (NCCA) or Distance Education Accrediting Commission (DEAC)-accredited certification?
 Yes, Certificate has been uploaded.
 No, therefore I understand I will no longer be considered for this position.


4.
How many years' experience do you have assisting customers by providing general fitness information, instruction on proper use of fitness equipment (i.e. facility orientations), exercise prescription and program information? Must be documented on your resume.
 I have 3+ years' experience with the above.
 I have 2-3 years' experience with the above.
 I have 1-2years' experience with the above.
 I have less than 1 years' experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


5.
Do you have any of the following certificates (check all that apply)? Upload all current certifications with resume.
 Mission Nutrition (Navy) Course
 Navy Operational Fitness & Fueling System (NOFFS) - Operational Course
 Navy Operational Fitness & Fueling System (NOFFS) - Strength, Endurance & Sandbag Series(SES) Course
 Command Fitness Leader Course
 CPR/First Aid
 Other military service fitness certification (e.g. USMC AMP-IT or USMC HITT
 None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙