Position Title
Occupational Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTB-12779147-25-JMM Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 11, 2025 to Thursday, August 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
2. Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
3. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education or training that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. If your resume does not support your questionnaire answers, we will not allow credit for your response(s).
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. English Proficiency: Applicants must be proficient in spoken and written English.

Do you meet this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Please select the most appropriate response below to indicate how you meet the experience and/or education requirement for the Occupational Therapist occupation.

Creditable Experience. To be creditable, the experience must have required the use of knowledge, skills, and abilities associated with current professional occupational therapy practice. Creditable experience can be obtained through employment as an OT. This may be evidenced by one or both of the following:
1. Active professional practice. Active professional practice includes paid/non-paid employment as a professional OT, and as defined by the American Occupational Therapy Association (AOTA). Experience gained after graduation but prior to licensure/certification is creditable, provided the candidate was utilized as a graduate OT and subsequently passed the National Board for Certification in Occupational Therapy (NBCOT) certification, and the required state regulatory requirements.
2. Completion of a post-graduate fellowship or a post-graduate residency program can be substituted for creditable experience on a year for year basis. Fellowships or post-graduate training programs are typically in specialty areas such as advanced practice, research, mental health, gerontology, enhanced education, health policy, leadership and therapeutic science.

Quality of Experience. Experience is only creditable if it is post-graduate experience as a professional OT directly related to the duties to be performed. Qualifying experience must be at a level comparable to professional occupational therapy experience at the next lower level.

Education: Individuals must be a graduate of a degree program in occupational therapy approved by the ACOTE or predecessor organizations. This is inclusive of an internship (supervised fieldwork experience required by the educational institution). ACOTE is the only accreditation agency recognized by the United States Department of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation. Degree programs may be verified by contacting the American Occupational Therapy Association website or at their office address: American Occupational Therapy Association, P.O. Box 31220, Bethesda, MD 20824-1220.
 A. I have a Bachelor’s degree in occupational therapy and two (2) years of experience as an occupational therapist. NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE) would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy. I understand that I must submit transcripts (unofficial are sufficient) and that the experience must be fully detailed on my resume. Failure to do so may result in an ineligible rating.
 B. I have a Bachelor’s degree in occupational therapy and two (2) full years of graduate education in a related field. NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that ACOTE would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy. I understand that I must submit transcripts (unofficial are sufficient) and that the experience must be fully detailed on my resume. Failure to do so may result in an ineligible rating.
 C. I have a Master’s degree or higher in occupational therapy. I understand that I must submit transcripts (unofficial are sufficient). Failure to do so may result in an ineligible rating.
 D. I meet the requirement as a Foreign Graduate. Graduates of foreign occupational therapy programs meet the requirements if they have a current, full, active and unrestricted state license.
 E. I meet the Grandfathering Provision: I was employed with VHA on December 13, 2019 (and remain employed) as an Occupational Therapist and am considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade held including positive education and certification/licensure requirements that are part of the basic requirements for the occupation. I understand that I must submit a SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, to document this employment as well as a current SF-50. Failure to do so may result in an ineligible rating.
 F. I do not meet this requirement.
3. Certification: Please select the most appropriate statement below in reference to National Board for Certification in Occupational Therapy (NBCOT) certification.
 A. I have a current NBCOT certification. I understand that I must submit a copy. Failure to do so may result in an ineligible rating.
 B. I meet the Grandfathering Provision: I was employed with VHA on December 13, 2019 (and remain employed) as an Occupational Therapist and am considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade held including positive education and certification/licensure requirements that are part of the basic requirements for the occupation. I understand that I must submit a SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, to document this employment as well as a current SF-50. Failure to do so may result in an ineligible rating.
 C. No, I do not possess a current NBCOT certification as an Occupational Therapist.
4. Licensure: Applicants must possess a full, current, and unrestricted state license, to practice occupational therapy in a state, territory or Commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia.

Do you possess a full, current and unrestricted license?
 A. Yes, I possess a full, current, and unrestricted state license, to practice occupational therapy in a state, territory or Commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia. I understand that I must submit a copy. Failure to do so may result in an ineligible rating.
 B. I meet the Grandfathering Provision: I was employed with VHA on December 13, 2019 (and remain employed) as an Occupational Therapist and am considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade held including positive education and certification/licensure requirements that are part of the basic requirements for the occupation. I understand that I must submit a SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, to document this employment as well as a current SF-50. Failure to do so may result in an ineligible rating.
 C. No, I do not possess a full, current and unrestricted license to practice occupational therapy in a state, territory or Commonwealth of the United States or District of Columbia.
5. Occupational Therapist GS-12 Qualifications:

Education, Experience, and Licensure: To qualify for the GS-12 Occupational Therapist position, applicants must have completed one year of experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level and directly related to the position being filled.

At the GS-11 level, OTs practice independently and are responsible for the assessment of functional and occupational roles using standardized tools. The OT modifies standardized and non-standardized evaluation tools. OTs select and provide direct occupational therapy interventions and procedures with routine complexity to enhance safety, wellness, performance in activities of daily living (ADL); and instrumental activities of daily living (IADL), education, work, play, leisure, and social participation. OTs demonstrate an understanding of the theories of treatment in OT and their proper application through the use of activity analysis, behavioral intervention, frame of references, and therapeutic procedures. OTs at the GS-11 grade level demonstrate all of the following knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs):
Knowledge of occupational therapy practice.
Ability to administer/interpret evaluation findings to develop and coordinate intervention plans, including goals and methods of treatment.
Ability to implement intervention plans directly or in collaboration with others.
Skill in monitoring an individual's response to interventions and modify treatment plans and reevaluating as directed.
Ability to communicate and or collaborate with patients, family members, caregivers, interdisciplinary professionals and/or other individuals verbally and in writing.
Knowledge of health and safety regulations to minimize risk in the provision of patient care and the environment of care.
Knowledge of applicable regulations governing documentation, reimbursement and workload entry in accordance with established professional practice.
Additionally, applicants must demonstrate the knowledge, skills and abilities (KSAs) listed below:
Knowledge of occupational therapy principles and techniques consistent with current clinical standards based on OT theory and evidence based practice. Knowledge is inclusive of physical, occupational, cognitive, and psychosocial functional deficits.
Ability to collaborate and communicate orally and in writing with all internal and external stakeholders.
Ability to use critical analysis, clinical reasoning, and creativity to independently solve complex problems related to adapting and modifying assessments, treatment plans, activities and procedures to meet the needs of patients.
Skill in procuring, fabricating, adjusting, adapting, and modifying orthoses, splints, and adaptive equipment for activities of daily living (inclusive of durable medical equipment).
Ability to conduct OT related in-service and clinical training.

Do you meet the grade determining requirements listed above?
 A. Yes, I possess the education, experience and licensure for the GS-12 Occupational Therapist listed above. I understand that I must fully detail this in my resume. Failure to do so may result in a not qualified rating.
 B. I meet the Grandfathering Provision: I was employed with VHA on December 13, 2019 (and remain employed) as an Occupational Therapist and am considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade held including positive education and certification/licensure requirements that are part of the basic requirements for the occupation. I understand that I must submit a SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, to document this employment as well as a current SF-50. Failure to do so may result in an ineligible rating.
 C. No, I do not possess the education, experience and licensure for the GS-12 Occupational Therapist listed above.
RESUME REMINDER:  Your resume must include the following information each job listed: Job title; Duties (be as detailed as possible); Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008); Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week); Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.
Transcript Reminder: This position has formal education requirement. You MUST SUBMIT a copy of your transcripts with your application. Unofficial is sufficient.

 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected