Position Title
PROGRAM ANALYST (EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION COORDINATOR)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12794082 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 8, 2025 to Friday, September 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Millington, TN
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the the Program Analyst (Early Childhood Education Coordinator) position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you have three or more years(s) of experience with applying child development principles, early learning, curriculum design, developmentally appropriate practices, and classroom/home-based environmental standards?


 A. Yes
 B. No
2. What is your highest level of education?
 A. I have master’s degree or higher in Child Development, Early Childhood Education, Secondary Education, Psychology, Social Work, or a closely related field.
 B. I have a bachelor’s degree in child development, Early Childhood Education, Secondary Education, Psychology, Social Work, or a closely related field AND a non-related master’s degree or higher.
 C. I have a bachelor’s degree in child development, Early Childhood Education, Secondary Education, Psychology, Social Work, or a closely related field.
 D. I have a combination of education and experience, including 24 higher level semester hours in Child Development, Early Childhood Education, Secondary Education, Special Education, Psychology, Social Work, Youth Development, or closely related field.
 E. I have a non-related degree.
 F. I do not have any of the above.
3. How many years of experience do you have supporting programs in achieving and
maintaining national accreditation standards (e.g., NAEYC) and DoD certification requirements?

 A. I have 10+ years of experience as described above.
 B. I have 5-9 years of experience as described above.
 C. I have 3-5 years of experience as described above.
 D. I have less than 3 years of experience as described above.
 E. I have no experience as described above.
4. How many years of experience do you have with program management?
 A. I have 5+ years of experience as described above.
 B. I have 3 – 5 years of experience as described above.
 C. I have 1 – 3 years of experience as described above.
 D. I have less than 1 year of experience as described above.
 E. I have no experience as described above.
5. How many years of experience do you have with resolving complex issues with senior leadership and key stakeholders?
 A. I have 5+ years of experience as described above.
 B. I have 3 – 5 years of experience as described above.
 C. I have 1 – 3 years of experience as described above.
 D. I have less than 1 year of experience as described above.
 E. I have no experience as described above.
6. How many years of experience do you have tracking and analyzing national trends in early learning and child care, specifically for Child Development Centers and 24/7 programs, to identify opportunities and inform programming enhancements for Navy Child and Youth Programs?

 A. I have 10+ years of experience as described above.
 B. I have 5-10 years of experience as described above.
 C. I have 1 – 5 years of experience as described above.
 D. I have less than 1 year of experience as described above.
 E. I have no experience as described above.
7. How many years of experience do you have using software solutions and systems (e.g., Inspection Management System, Incident Reporting Tool) to monitor and track inspections and incidents?

 A. I have 5+ years of experience as described above.
 B. I have 3 – 5 years of experience as described above.
 C. I have 1 – 3 years of experience as described above.
 D. I have less than 1 year of experience as described above.
 E. I have no experience as described above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected