Position Title
Animal Health Technician (New World Screwworm)
Agency
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
Announcement Number
DE-12756376 -25-VS Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, June 30, 2025 to Wednesday, July 9, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than USDA? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

 For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Douglas, AZ
 B. Columbus, NM
 C. Santa Teresa, NM
2. Would you accept a term appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a retiree receiving a civilian Federal or FSA County Annuity?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Have you ever received a voluntary separation incentive payment (VSIP or buyout) to leave the Federal civilian service or FSA County position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current or former: Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a federal employee receiving a recruitment, relocation, retention and/or other incentive payment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Once a selection is made for this position, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with other hiring managers in the agency who have similar vacancies. Please opt in below if you're willing to have your name, application material, and assessment results shared to be considered for additional, similar positions. There is no guarantee of for further consideration.
 A. Opt-in: Please share my name, application material, and assessment results with additional hiring managers within the agency for similar positions.
 B. Opt-out: I only want to be considered for positions associated with this specific application.
Core Questions
1. Has your work schedule been full-time, i.e., 35-40 hours per week, for every position listed on your resume or OF-612?

If yes, please type Yes.
If no, please type No and include the following in your response for all positions held: position title, employer, dates employed (MM/DD/YY), work schedule (i.e., Full-Time (FT), Part-Time (PT), etc.), and hours/week. Please list in order with current/most recent position first.
Failure to provide all requested information may prevent us from giving credit for experience.
2. I understand for information on the status of my application and the outcome of the application process, I (the applicant) must inquire through USAJOBS. No separate notification will be sent to me. To view the status of my application and the outcome of the application process, I must go to the USAJOBS website and log into My Account. Once in My Account, I must enter the "Application Status" section of the website.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD 214, 50B, performance appraisal may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I understand that any correspondence necessary will be conducted via e-mail and sent to the e-mail address I provided in this application process. I must keep this e-mail address current.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Do you possess a current driver's license from one of the 50 states or the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico or territories or possessions of the United States?

If you respond yes to this question and you are interviewed, you must be prepared to present your driver's license as confirmation.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. GS-6 - Choose one answer that best describes your education and experience.
 A. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-5 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I have successfully completed at least one full year of graduate level education (18 semester hours, 27 quarter hours or equivalent) in a field of study directly related to the work of this position as described in the vacancy announcement.
 C. I possess a combination of specialized experience and graduate education that together meet the requirements for this position.
 D. I do not meet any of the requirements as described.
2. I have experience assessing the health, condition or welfare of the following animals:
 A. Poultry species
 B. Hogs
 C. Sheep
 D. Cattle
 E. Horses
 F. Lab animals
 G. Cervidae (deer, elk)
 H. Other farm/ranch animals (llamas, alpaca, etc)
 I. Small domestic mammals (cats, dogs, etc.)
 J. Large exotic mammals (lions, tigers, bears, elephants, primates, etc.)
 K. Other exotic mammals
 L. Marine mammals
 M. Exotic birds
 N. Wild birds/reptiles
 O. None of the above
3. I have experience handling animals in the role of:
 A. Ranch or farm owner
 B. Lab animal technician
 C. Feed lot, sale barn or auction manager or supervisor
 D. Ranch, farm, feedlot, sale barn or auction laborer
 E. Small animal (dog, cat, bird, etc.) owner
 F. Large animal (horse, cow, sheep, etc.) owner/ trainer/ breeder/ groom
 G. Small animal veterinary technician / animal health technician
 H. Large animal veterinary technician / animal health technician
 I. Animal caretaker
 J. Animal control officer
 K. Livestock or poultry breeder
 L. Zoo keeper
 M. Dog trainer/kennel owner/ breeder
 N. Other
 O. None of the above
4. I have performed the following work functions pertaining to livestock
 A. Supervising, monitoring, or inspecting kill floor operations in slaughter plants
 B. Blood specimen Sample collection for disease testing purposes
 C. Supervising/inspecting sanitation of pens, lots, facilities, and transport vehicles
 D. Tracing livestock to herds-of-origin
 E. Disease prevention, control, and eradication activities in the field
 F. Animal health regulatory inspections/enforcement
 G. None of the above
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
5. I am fluent in the Spanish language and can communicate proficiently both orally and in writing.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
6. I am proficient at applying the following to monitor the movement of livestock on an intra-state, inter-state, and international basis:
 A. Title 9, Code of Federal Regulations
 B. APHIS directives
 C. Veterinary Service Memorandums
 D. Uniform Methods and Rules pertaining to livestock identification and animal disease control and eradication
 E. Statutes to monitor movement of livestock
 F. Market practices and trace areas which ensure animal identification for trace back to the herd of origin
 G. The 28 Hour Law
 H. Regulations of the state animal health commissions or regulatory agencies
 I. Other pertinent rules, regulations, and/or statutes
 J. None of the above
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
7. Using the animal identification program and its components to trace an animal identified as diseased or exposed to its origin.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
8. I am proficient at interpreting and applying rules, regulations, statutes, etc. to determine if a violation has occurred concerning:
 A. Disease control of animals, livestock and/or poultry
 B. Movement of livestock (intrastate, interstate, import, or export)
 C. Animal welfare
 D. Animal, livestock, poultry quarantines
 E. Animal, livestock feed
 F. Movement of animal products, hay straw, and other materials into the U.S
 G. None of the above
9. I am proficient at interpreting and applying standards, guidelines, regulations, and statutes for the following purposes:
 A. Assessing regulatory compliance during inspections of animal/livestock/poultry facilities and operations
 B. Assessing sanitation of animal/livestock/poultry facilities and methods
 C. Assessing compliance concerning interstate or intrastate transportation of animals/livestock/poultry
 D. Issuing permits/certificates for the movement of livestock
 E. Providing advice to farmers, ranchers, officials, and others to promote compliance
 F. Issuing warning notices, violation notices, etc.
 G. Enforcing the applicable standards, regulations, statutes, etc.
 H. None of the above
10. I am proficient at reviewing the following for accuracy and completeness:
 A. Daily kill sheets
 B. Health certificates
 C. Station forms
 D. Herd records
 E. Brand records
 F. Dock cards
 G. Laboratory reports
 H. Blood collection records
 I. None of the above
11. I am proficient at supervising and performing the following disinfecting processes:
 A. Dipping and spraying livestock for screwworm eradication
 B. Applying sprays and disinfectants to livestock for tick and/or scabies eradication
 C. Disinfecting premises which have contained diseased livestock or poultry
 D. Disinfecting premises after the release of birds from quarantine
 E. Disinfecting vehicles used to transport diseased livestock or poultry
 F. None of the above
12. I have direct experience and/or training in the use of the following personal protective equipment (PPE):
 A. Rubber boots and protective gloves
 B. Medical or laboratory coats/smocks/outerwear
 C. Sanitized garments/masks
 D. Respirators
 E. Other PPE
 F. None of the above
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
13. The following best describes my highest level of experience and training in procedures associated with vat management, pesticide testing and disposal, and vat dipping methods.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
14. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 A. Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 B. No, I do not certify and I understand that by responding “no” to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected