Position Title
Administrative Officer
Agency
U.S. Marshals Service
Announcement Number
IMP-12774914-25-LC Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, August 19, 2025 to Monday, August 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service AND can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements?
The grade level or at least one of the grade levels I am applying for is higher than I have previously held or currently hold? 
The stated full performance level of this position is at a higher grade level than any of my previous or current position's stated full performance level(s)?
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions. You may need to submit more than one SF-50. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must also reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1). 
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and you have held a permanent position at the same or higher grade level as this position with the same or higher promotion potential?

OR

Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and you have held the full performance level of this position on a permanent basis?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions. You may need to submit more than one SF-50.Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must also reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Due Weight
1. Which of the following statements best represents your most recent performance appraisal rating?
 A. I received a rating of record equivalent to at least "fully successful or higher".
 B. I do not meet the performance appraisal rating as described above.
2. If you selected B, "I do not meet the performance appraisal rating as described above," then please provide an explanation of the reasons. If you selected A, then please type N/A.
3. Which of the following statements best represents your awards history? (Awards include superior performance awards, special act or achievement awards, quality step increases and other equivalent awards.)
 A. I received an award or awards, such as those described above, within the past 4 years for service, accomplishments, or initiatives.
 B. I received an award or awards, such as those described above, more than 4 years ago for service, accomplishments or initiatives.
 C. I have not received any awards.
Narrative Response Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Administrative Officer, GS-0341-13, position with the U.S. Marshals Service. Note: Your application materials must support your responses to the following questionnaire.
1. Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform as an Administrative Officer at the GS-13 level.

 A. I have at least one year of specialized work experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service performing the following: 1) leading administrative staff to accomplish work assignments; 2) advising on financial and accounting operations to maintain proper financial balance and ensure financial actions are within rules and regulations; 3) developing budget requests and monitoring budget execution of an organization; 4) providing advice and assistance on human resources matters such as position descriptions, performance standards, and personnel actions; AND 5) reviewing and evaluating administrative and financial programs and procedures to identify weaknesses or deficiencies and recommend solutions.
 B. My experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected