Position Title
Physical Therapy Asst
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZP-12800643-25-RJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 16, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING. YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSES YOU SELECT.
1. Are you proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you possess an Associate degree in Physical Therapy Assistant from a college or university accredited by the Accreditation Council for Physical Therapy Assistant Education (CAPTE) of the American Physical Therapy Association (CAPTE)?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. Are you a graduate of foreign physical therapy assistant degree programs that meet the educational requirement and have successfully passed the National Physical Therapy Exam (NPTE) for PTAs? (Transcripts Required).
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a graduate of military physical therapy assistant programs that meet the educational requirement and have successfully passed the NPTE for PTAs. (Transcripts Required).
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Do you possess a current, full, active and unrestricted license as a PTA in a State, Territory or Commonwealth (i.e. Puerto Rico) of the United States, or District of Columbia? (COPY REQUIRED)
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Exception. Non-licensed applicants who otherwise meet the minimum qualification requirements.
5a. Please provide your license/certification information.
Name on License:
Issuing state or territory:
Complete license number:
Initial Issuance Date:
Expiration Date:
In addition to meeting the basic requirements. This section will be used to determine if you possess the knowledge, skills and abilities to provide professional, Physical Therapy Assistant work services. Please select only one letter for each item. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THIS QUESTION WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
6. GS-6 Level. Do you possess one (1) full year of creditable experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-05) as a licensed Physical Therapy Assistant. In addition to basic requirements can you fully demonstrate the following KSAs:
1. Knowledge of evidence based physical therapy practice.
2. Ability to perform physical therapy data collection and use of objective measures in order to carry out patient plan of care.
3. Ability to modify treatment approaches, within the scope of the established treatment plans, to reflect patients' changing needs.
4. Skill in promoting physical therapy services by providing training and interventions within the assigned areas.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. GS-7 Level. Do you possess one (1) year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-06). Experience at this level include but not limited to: receiving ongoing guidance from more experienced staff members and requiring general clinical direction by the treating physical therapist; and assisting physical therapist in reaching patient goals. In addition can you fully demonstrate the following KSAs:
1. Ability to perform in depth chart review to implement treatment plans.
2. Ability to independently use objective measures to assess progress, in accordance with the plan of care for complex patient cases.
3. Knowledge of contemporary physical therapy practice.
4. Ability to consult with the PT to assess progress, modify treatment and set discharge plan.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. GS-8 LEVEL: Do you possess at least one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level GS-7? Specialized experience includes but is not limited to: Performing in depth chart review to implement treatment plans. Independently use objective measures to assess progress, in accordance with the plan of care for complex patient cases. Knowledge of contemporary physical therapy practice. Consulting with the PT to assess progress, modify treatment and set discharge plan. In addition, can you demonstrate the following KSA's:
Ability to independently implement treatment plan using knowledge of techniques related to the patient's disability and needs.
Ability to independently provide varied and multifaceted physical therapy interventions based on the established care plan (e.g., therapeutic exercise, balance, body mechanics, flexibility, strength, gait training, neuromotor development, physical agents, functional training, etc.).
Knowledge of physical therapy data collection and assessment techniques in order to perform specific interventions and to monitor and capture progress of the patient/client.
Ability to instruct patient on varied interventions to provide materials to enhance compliance with home programs.
Ability to modify treatment techniques based on the learning needs and perceptions of the patient.
Ability to identify critical changes (e.g. vital signs, pain, mobility and alertness) in patient conditions to determine their medical and functional status.
Ability to work with PTs and other interdisciplinary healthcare team members to evaluate patient information for planning, modifying, and coordinating treatment programs and discharge planning.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
9. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C.1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected