Position Title
Student Trainee (Auditor)
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OT-DE(INT)-12788524-KEG Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 3, 2025 to Wednesday, September 10, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you currently a student who meets all of the following requirements?
Have been accepted for enrollment or is enrolled at least half-time in an accredited high school, college, professional, technical, vocational, or trade school, pursuing a qualifying degree or certificate; or a Registered apprenticeship program; post-secondary home school curriculum AND
Have a minimum Grade Point Average of 2.0 for undergraduate studies or lower program, and a minimum Grade Point Average of 3.0 for a master's program or higher program; AND
If you are a graduating senior, you must continue to be enrolled in a degree seeking program.
For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate Resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide proof of current enrollment. Note: you must remain enrolled in the degree or certificate program to be eligible for this Internship. Proof of enrollment includes a current transcript for the upcoming semester/quarter; a current course schedule; or a notification of enrollment from your school's Registrar's office.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Long Beach, CA
 B. San Jose, CA
 C. Washington, DC
 D. Miami, FL
 E. Atlanta, GA
 F. Boston, MA
 G. Detroit, MI
 H. Minneapolis, MN
 I. Newark, NJ
 J. New York, NY
 K. Philadelphia, PA
 L. El Paso, TX
 M. Houston, TX
 N. Ashburn, VA
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
3
4
3. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you receiving a civilian retirement annuity from OPM based on retiring from the Federal government? If you select yes and you are selected for this position, your salary will be off-set by the amount of your civilian retirement annuity.

To verify, you must submit a copy of your retirement SF-50 with your application package. It is also recommended to submit a copy of your most recent annuity statement.

Note, this does not apply to military retirement and annuity pay.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
6. Are you a current or former Federal employee? If yes, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your SF-50(s) (Notification of Personnel Action) to support your experience. Also, ensure that your resume contains a detailed description of your federal work experience, including the dates you performed those duties, your hours worked per week, job title, as well as series, grade level(s), and salary (if applicable).
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-03 grade level?
 A. I have completed one (1) full academic year above high school.
 B. I do not possess the education described above.
8. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience and/or education to qualify for the GS-04 grade level?
 A. I have completed two (2) full academic years above high school.
 B. I have completed the requirements for an associate's degree.
 C. I do not possess the education described above.
9. To meet the eligibility requirements for this Pathways Intern position you must provide proof that you meet the below requirements:
Have been accepted for enrollment or are enrolled at least half-time in an accredited high school, college, professional, technical, vocational, or trade school pursuing a qualifying degree or certificate. Proof of enrollment includes a current transcript for the upcoming semester/quarter; a current course schedule; or a notification of enrollment from your school's Registrar's office.;
Have at a minimum a Grade Point Average of 2.0 for undergraduate studies or lower program, and a minimum Grade Point Average of 3.0 for a master's program or higher program. Proof of Grade Point Average includes a current official or unofficial transcript.;
If selected, prior to entrance on duty in the position, you must provide proof of continued enrollment for the upcoming semester. Examples include but are not limited to: Letter of acceptance, letter from the registrar, letter of intent from an advisor, upcoming course schedule with institution's letter head, unofficial transcripts, etc.
Do you acknowledge that you have read and understand the above requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Which of the following best describes your education to meet the Individual Occupation Requirements for the Auditor position upon graduation?

 A. A. I am pursuing a degree in accounting, auditing, or a degree including auditing courses in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that will include 24 semester hours in accounting, which can include up to 6 hours of business law and I will be able to demonstrate my completion of the Individual Occupational Requirements for the Auditor position upon graduation.
 B. I am not pursuing the education described above.
11. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by CBP. Individuals are required to have physically resided in the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law) for at least three of the last five years, before completing an application for CBP employment.

If you do not meet the residency requirement as stated above and you have been physically located in a foreign location for more than two of the last five years, you may request an exception to determine if you are eligible for a residency wavier by meeting one or more of the following conditions:
Working for the U.S. Government as a federal civilian or as a member of the military
A dependent who was authorized to accompany a federal civilian or member of the military who was working for the U.S. government
Participation in a study abroad program sponsored by a U.S. affiliated college or university
Working as a contractor, intern, consultant or volunteer supporting the U.S. government

Exceptions may be granted to applicants if they can provide complete state-side coverage information required to make a suitability determination. Examples of state-side coverage information include: the state-side address of the company headquarters where the applicant's personnel file is located, the state-side address of the Professor in charge of the applicant's "Study Abroad" program, and/or the state-side addresses of anyone who worked or studied with the applicant while overseas. If selected for a position, you must provide documentation to support a request for an exception.

Do you meet the residency requirement?
 A. Yes, for at least 3 of the last 5 years I physically resided within the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law).
 B. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am a current CBP employee.
 C. No, I do not meet this requirement and am therefore requesting an exception under one of the criteria listed above. I understand that if selected for this position, I will be required to provide supporting documentation for the period of time I have spent outside of the United States.
 D. No, I do not meet this requirement and am not requesting an exception. I understand that since I do not meet CBP’s residency requirement, I cannot be considered for a position with CBP at this time.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected