Position Title
RECREATION PROGRAMMER - LIBERTY CENTER
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12758533 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 2, 2025 to Wednesday, July 9, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Recreation Assistant position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
1. Select the response applicable to you.

 A. I have 1 year of specialized experience e.g. assist in the organization and administration of recreation activities such as preparing activities calendars, maintaining attendance records, and providing information concerning schedules and activities.
 B. I have an Associate's degree or higher that includes at least 12 semester hours in courses related to recreation.
 C. I have none of the above.
2. How many years of experience do you have with providing customer service e.g. providing timely and attentive service to internal and external customers, clear communication skills, product knowledge, and positive attitude)?
 A. I have more than 3 years of experience as described above.
 B. I have 2-3 years of experience as described above.
 C. I have 1 year of experience as described above.
 D. I have less than 1 year of experience as described above.
 E. I have no experience as described above.
3. Select the one statement that best describes your experience and demonstrates your ability to provide excellent Customer Services.
 A. I have extensive experience working in customer service and I am very comfortable reaching out to vendors, assisting customers, and answering questions. I understand what it means to assist both internal and external customers.
 B. I have previously worked in customer service and have experience helping customers.
 C. I have not worked in customer service, but would be willing to learn.
4. What prior experience do you possess working with computers, office equipment, and MICROSOFT office applications?
 A. I have extensive experience with these duties in previous jobs and can perform them independently without need of instruction or supervision.
 B. I am familiar with performing these duties and I am comfortable using computers.
 C. I have not performed these duties before, but would be willing to learn under supervision of a trainer or senior employee.
5. How do you feel about working as part of a team?
 A. I enjoy working as part of a team and do my best work when collaborating with co-workers to achieve a common goal.
 B. I enjoy working alone and believe it is necessary to complete some tasks. I can reach out for support or guidance as needed.
 C. I am very capable of working independently on tasks and to get the work done in a timely and satisfying manner.
6. What experience do you have planning and offering trips, tours, excursions, and planning special events?
 A. I have extensive experience with activity, excursion, and event planning and working with contractors and vendors, securing funding, staying within budget, obtaining venues, and marketing the event. Also, submitting after action reports as needed.
 B. I have previous experience with event planning, working with organizers to ensure success with the event.
 C. I have limited experience with this but have assisted with special events and functions.
 D. I don't have experience with these duties.
7. What experience do you have with planning for and providing instruciton and guidance wiht hands-on activitiessuch as arts and crafts projects, cooking demostrations and instructions, etc.
 A. I have performed this activity in a previous job and understand the requirements to plan and prepare in advance for these events.
 B. I have assisted with similar activities and would follow directions as instructed.
 C. I don't have experience with this activity.
8. How would you describe your organization skills in order to manage your time effectively, keep track of and prioritize tasks and to set goals.
 A. I have extensive experience with this and can perform independently without instruction or supervision.
 B. I have previous experience with organization skills but could use additional guidance with this task.
 C. I have not needed to use organization skills in my previous jobs.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected