Position Title
Supervisory Operations Support Specialist
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12771461-NBC-IMP-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 4, 2025 to Wednesday, August 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current USCIS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. The Reemployment Priority List (RPL) is the mechanism DHS uses to give reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees separated by reduction-in-force (RIF), or fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a current USCIS employee?  If so, have you met all of the following criteria?
Registered for the RPL program, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupied a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current/most recent performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent, and
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606
For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, visit 5 CFR 330 Subpart B.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
My SF-50 showing Separation - RIF. If that is not available yet, then official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who is in a permanent position that is in the competitive service (see block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type)?

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of our SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who has held, or currently holds, a permanent position in the competitive service (see block #34 of your SF-50) with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?  

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
 Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. I acknowledge the following conditions if I choose to submit my resume through the USAJOBS Resume Builder:
I understand that resumes submitted through USAJOBS Resume Builder are converted to a PDF format when they are transmitted to USA Staffing from the USAJOBS applicant interface and additional spaces/page gaps are added to resumes during the Resume Builder conversion process;
Based on the above conditions, I understand that USCIS strongly encourages me to save my resume to a PDF document and upload the PDF document instead of submitting my resume created through Resume Builder;
I understand that USCIS' human resources will only review the first 5 pages of my resume to determine eligibility/qualifications for this position;
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I have met this requirement for consideration.

(Note: Additional guidance regarding this requirement is available within the How to Submit Your Resume section of the USCIS Resume Requirement FAQs.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 D. No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.
3.

This job is being posted for individuals who reside within the local commuting area* of the announced duty location on a permanent basis. All candidates must meet this requirement, with the exception of Refugee, Asylum and International Operations (RAIO) overseas employees approved for rotation OR unless on an approved exemption OR at an approved USCIS location. In these cases you can apply for any location.

Do you reside within the local commuting area* of the announced duty location on a permanent basis OR are a RAIO overseas employee approved for rotation OR on an approved exemption** OR at an approved USCIS location***?

*Local commuting area is defined as a distance that you can reasonably travel back and forth daily to the announced duty location from your permanent residence.

**An approved exemption is: military spouses, approved RA, or temporary long distance remote status (documentation required).

***An approved USCIS location is defined as pre authorized space designated for use by the program, office or directorate.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

The address listed on your USA Jobs profile or resume must show that you reside within the local commuting area of the announced duty location.
If on an approved exemption you must provide the most recent approval.
If at an approved USCIS location you must provide the original reporting instructions.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. If your status changes, requiring you to report to a physical location you may be directed to report to one of the duty locations listed in the original job opportunity announcement without relocation expenses.
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I understand this requirement.
By answering NO to this question, I am asking to be removed from further consideration for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current USCIS employee who opted to take part of the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) and are currently in an Administrative Leave category?
 A. Yes.
 B. No.
6. This advertisement is open for current permanent USCIS employees of a specified office. Refer to the "Clarification from the agency" section of the vacancy announcement for office specific details. Are you a current permanent employee of the specific USCIS office listed in the "Clarification from the agency" section of this vacancy announcement? Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement, that shows you are a current permanent employee of the USCIS office (block #22 of your SF-50) listed in the announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. GS-15 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
2. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.

3. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-15. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-14 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-14 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-14 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-15 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
The following section contains a multitude of question types. If you see a radio button, you can only select one response. If you see a checkbox, you may select all that apply.
 
4. Which actions have you completed to implement strategic initiatives (e.g. enterprise-wide hiring reform, improving operating processes, developmental programs)?
 A. Participated in the implementation of a strategic initiative with organization-wide implications.
 B. Led a working group focused on implementation of an organization-wide strategic initiative.
 C. Developed a course of action (e.g., road map, project plan) for a strategic initiative.
 D. Identified risks or barriers to successful achievement for a strategic initiative.
 E. Reported on the progress of a strategic achievement to leadership (e.g., formal briefings, progress reports).
 F. Revised a course of action to meet a strategic goal.
 G. None of the above.
5. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience measuring workload based on personnel requirements?
 A. I completed education and/or training related to measuring workloads but do not have professional experience.
 B. I independently monitored my workload to ensure personnel shortcomings and workload requirements were met.
 C. I participated in a work group or shared team to devise and monitor workload and personnel balances to accomplish organizational needs.
 D. I served as a primary contributor by monitoring and advising the management of my workload and the workload of others
 E. I developed a method of tracking workload demands in contrast to employee ratios based on varied levels of experience and complexity.
 F. I provided feedback on my workload balance strategic efforts and provided feedback for process improvement.
 G. None of the above
6. Which statement best describes your role in aligning work with organizational goals and objectives?
 A. I have worked within a team to achieve organizational goals and objectives.
 B. I have led a team to achieve organizational goals and objectives.
 C. I have supervised a team to achieve organizational goals and objectives.
 D. None of the above
7. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience conducting new employee orientation?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to conducting new employee orientation.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to conducting new employee orientation but do not have professional experience.
 C. I provided assistance to senior staff in developing curriculum (e.g., presentation, associated documentation) for a new employee orientation program.
 D. I independently developed a curriculum (e.g., presentation, associated documentation) for a new employee orientation program.
 E. I supervised the implementation of a new employee orientation curriculum and provided feedback for process improvement.
8. Select the audiences for whom you have prepared customer feedback presentations (e.g., briefings).
 A. Colleagues
 B. Team leads/Program Managers
 C. First-line Supervisors
 D. Senior-level officials
 E. External partners
 F. None of the above
9. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience conducting on-the-job training?
 A. I completed education and/or training related to conducting on-the-job training but do not have professional experience.
 B. I volunteered to conduct training to newly appointed co-workers and supervisors on changes in job-related functions.
 C. I was appointed as an additional duty trainer when new policies procedures and job-related changes occurred.
 D. I served as a trainer/facilitator for on-the-job training and policy implementation training requirements as a core component of my job-related functions
 E. I developed training resources to implement a training program within my organization.
 F. None of the above.
10. Choose the statement(s) below that reflect(s) your experience giving oral presentations in a professional setting.
 A. I have given oral presentations to external parties and high-level management.
 B. I have given oral presentations to supervisory staff.
 C. I have given oral presentations to peers and colleagues.
 D. I have given oral presentations to subordinate staff.
 E. I have never given oral presentations.
11. Which statement best describes your approach to fostering dynamic interactions with management?
 A. I have adopted behaviors which enhance interactive contributions, such as expanding personal networks within the workplace and bringing more information to the table at team meetings.
 B. I keep informed on issues important to my organization and frame these issues appropriate to the manager with whom I am interacting.
 C. When communicating upward to management, I focus on the impact not the process and on vision for the future instead of past missteps.
 D. I first attempt to understand the roles of each level of management, and then present information that is pertinent to that manager's job function.
 E. None of the above.
12. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience in administering performance management and employee awards programs?
 A. I processed performance ratings and award actions using personnel systems.
 B. I provided assistance to a higher graded specialist or supervisor.
 C. I applied performance management and employee award concepts, laws, policies and practices to resolve complex and/or sensitive program problems.
 D. I developed and delivered training to agency employees on performance management and employee award programs.
 E. I have no experience, training, or education with performance management or employee award programs.
 F. I completed education and/or training related to administering performance management and employee awards programs but do not have professional experience.
13. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience conducting evaluations during the selection stage of the hiring process?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education conducting hiring evaluations.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to conducting hiring evaluations but do not have professional experience.
 C. I conducted initial reviews of applicant qualifications, selective placement factors, and resumes to advise selecting officials.
 D. I served as a member of an interview panel, which included developing interview questions and standards of review, and conducting reference checks.
 E. I led an interview panel, where I provided guidance to other members of the panel and gathered all pertinent information for submission to the selecting official.
 F. I reviewed hiring panel packages to make final selection determinations as an approving authority or selecting official.
14. Select the tasks you have performed to manage team assignments.
 A. Set expectations (i.e., standards, deadlines) for team/individual performance
 B. Executed an established operating/project budget
 C. Established work schedules`
 D. Assigned tasks
 E. Reviewed completed work for technical adequacy
 F. Provided feedback to team members/employees on completed work
 G. Reported team progress to senior management
 H. Created analysis of the workload to assist with performance measurements
 I. None of the above
15. Select the Human Resources functions you have performed to provide administrative support to customers (e.g., managers, administrative officers, selecting officials, applicants, employees, union officials).
 A. Recruitment and staffing (e.g., position classification, position management)
 B. Full Time Equivalent (FTE)/Individual Position Number (IPN) Utilization
 C. Personnel actions processing
 D. Adverse Actions
 E. Training on human resources topics
 F. None of the above
16. Select the human resources functions you have performed independently.
 A. Created personnel actions
 B. Approved personnel actions
 C. Reviewed current staffing levels and predicted future needs
 D. Formulated budgets
 E. Attended job fairs to source candidates
 F. Reviewed budget to determine if cuts needed to be made
 G. Reviewed candidate applications and made selection recommendations
 H. Interviewed potential candidates and made selection recommendations
 I. Determined the number of personnel needed to cover current workload
 J. Reviewed announcement drafts
 K. None of the above
17. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience developing action plans to achieve goals?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to developing action plans to achieve goals.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to developing action plans to achieve goals, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I reviewed office goals for alignment with the organizational mission.
 D. I created action plans to implement and meet goals across program areas.
 E. I participated in developing action items to support establishing goals for a specific program area.
 F. I led others in the development of actions items to support specific goals in a program areas.
18. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience assessing the design/effectiveness of internal controls?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to evaluating internal controls.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to evaluating internal controls, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I reported the end result that internal controls achieved their intended objective.
 D. I reported information (e.g., trend data) summarizing the results of assessments to support my conclusion.
 E. I developed alternative approaches to addressing issues on program effectiveness.
19. Which actions have you completed to implement strategic initiatives (e.g. enterprise-wide hiring reform, improving operating processes, developmental programs)?
 A. Participated in the implementation of a strategic initiative with organization-wide implications.
 B. Led a working group focused on implementation of an organization-wide strategic initiative.
 C. Developed a course of action (e.g., road map, project plan) for a strategic initiative.
 D. Identified risks or barriers to successful achievement for a strategic initiative.
 E. Reported on the progress of a strategic achievement to leadership (e.g., formal briefings, progress reports).
 F. Revised a course of action to meet a strategic goal.
 G. None of the above.
20. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience developing policies, guidance, directives, or procedures on program operations?
 A. I have recommended changes to existing policies that were implemented by others.
 B. I have no experience, education, or training on developing policies, guidance, directives, or procedures on program operations.
 C. I have independently developed policies, guidance, directives, or procedures on program operations.
 D. I reviewed and approved policies, guidance, directives, or procedures on program operations for accuracy and relevance prior to implementation.
 E. I completed education or training related to policy development, but do not yet have professional experience.
21. If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "pass," "satisfactory," or better?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. I am a Federal employee but have not received a performance rating.
 D. Not applicable. I am not a Federal employee.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
22. Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected