Position Title
ACUPUNCTURIST
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-12803661-25-CJ-TEAMC Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 1, 2025 to Friday, October 10, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the ACUPUNCTURIST (ADVANCED) position with the Beckley VA Medical Center. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, please note that your experience and education are subject to verification through investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title, Duties (be as detailed as possible), -
Month and year start/end dates (e.g., June 2007 to April 2008), -
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week). -
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held.
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against the information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted and digitally signed documents linked to your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


Transcript Reminder: If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action (for Eligibility) Documentation Reminder- If you are a current or former Federal employee, you must provide a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, "Notice of Personnel Action." The SF-50 must identify your position, title, series, grade, step, tenure, and type of service (Competitive or Excepted). In addition, if you have previously held a higher grade and are applying based on that grade, you must provide a copy of the SF-50 showing you held the higher grade, IN ADDITION to your last or most recent SF-50 indicating proof of status.


Basic Requirements: To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements. Please indicate Yes or No to the following questions:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Education. An individual must meet one of the requirements below:

Master's degree in acupuncture or oriental medicine from a program accredited by the Accreditation Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine (ACAOM).

OR

Advanced-level degree in acupuncture or oriental medicine from a program accredited by the Accreditation Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine (ACAOM).

Do you meet the Education requirement as described above? (Applicants must submit a copy of official/unofficial transcripts.)

*Foreign Graduates. Graduates of foreign acupuncture programs meet the requirements in subparagraph 3b if they have a full, unrestricted, and current license to practice acupuncture in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia. *
 Yes
 No


2.
Certification. Acupuncturists hired in the VHA must be board-certified through the National Certification Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine (NCCAOM). The board certification must be current, and the acupuncturist must abide by the certifying body's requirements for continuing education.

Are you board-certified through the National Certification Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine (NCCAOM)? (Applicants must submit a copy of their certification.)
 Yes
 No


3.
Licensure. Individuals must hold a current, full, active, and unrestricted license to practice acupuncture in a State, Territory or Commonwealth (i.e. Puerto Rico) of the United States, or District of Columbia.

Do you meet the licensure requirement as described above? (Applicants must submit a copy of their license.)
 Yes
 No


4.
English Language Proficiency. Candidates will not be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C. chapters 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA who are not proficient in written and spoken English.

Are you proficient in written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


GRADE DETERMINATIONS AND ASSIGNMENTS. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.


GS-12 Acupuncturist (Advanced)

Assignment: For all assignments above the full performance level, the higher-level duties must consist of significant scope, complexity, difficulty, range of variety, and be performed by the incumbent at least 25% of the time. Employees at this level carry out assigned tasks independently in all areas of acupuncture which substantially exceed the full performance level and require advanced knowledge in all areas of acupuncture. Regardless of the nature of the specific assignment, the work must be of sufficient scope and complexity to meet the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSA) to perform at this grade level. The advanced level acupuncturist serves as the leader of an interdisciplinary team to provide evaluation, monitoring, planning, and coordination of care of patients for acupuncture services. At this level of employment, the acupuncturist provides advanced acupuncture techniques that may include but are not limited to injections at acupuncture points. Duties include participation in case reviews and treatment plan discussions, demonstrating advanced knowledge of techniques and discussion of theory, as well as promoting and maintaining communication with staff and others. The acupuncturist participates in the creation of new programs or interventions that may include group acupuncture, combining acupuncture with other interventions, and expansion of acupuncture care into new populations or new settings. The incumbent works with others on improvement projects to discover, examine and test knowledge, theories, and innovative Oriental Medicine approaches. The advanced level acupuncturist may participate in clinical research projects that strengthen the scientific basis of acupuncture and related complementary and alternative medical treatments. Duties include the participation in teaching principles of acupuncture to staff, students and residents including journal clubs, grand rounds and in-service trainings. The incumbent provides assistance as needed for issues or problems that arise in relation to the acupuncture practice or service and serves as a preceptor to new staff or less experienced staff and students. The advanced level acupuncturist serves as an advisor to leadership on issues pertaining to acupuncture.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Experience: In addition to the basic requirements, completion of a minimum of one year of progressively complex experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level. Experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level includes:
At this level, Acupuncturists review and triage acupuncture referrals, analyzes medical histories and physical findings to formulate a differential diagnosis based on oriental and western medicine paradigms; communicates with patients about any abnormal or unexpected results or responses to treatment and advises patients regarding lifestyle changes including nutrition, exercise, sleeping habits, stress management, mind body techniques and other matters related to acupuncture care; submit referrals and requests for devices, materials and appliances available and commonly used by the acupuncture profession; document information related to patient care including assessment, diagnosis, treatment, response to treatment, plan of care, and patient education as well as identification and documentation of appropriate coding for each patient encounter; provides information regarding the patient consultation to other health care providers; manages clinical workload demands, and serves as a mentor to new staff or less experienced staff and students.

Do you have one year of progressively complex experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level as described above?

(Note: Applicants must demonstrate the above requirements in their application with supporting documentation.)
 Yes
 No


6.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSA). In addition to the experience & KSAs required at the full performance level above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs identified below:
(a) Skill and ability to perform safe and effective advanced acupuncture techniques.
(b) Knowledge of complex issues surrounding the delivery of care as it relates to acupuncture services, such as evidence-based and cost-effectiveness.
(c) Ability to apply and adapt acupuncture to new and changing programs.
(d) Knowledge of research strategies, methodologies, and principles.
(e) Ability to problem-solve issues surrounding the delivery of acupuncture.

Do you meet ALL of the following GS-12 Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) as described above?

(NOTE: Applicants must demonstrate the above requirements in their applications and supporting documentation).
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙