Position Title
Quality Assurance Specialist (Chemicals)
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLAEnergy-25-12758312-MPR1 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 2, 2025 to Wednesday, July 9, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. .

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and are applying a for a promotion?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).



 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and have held a position at or above the target grade for this position?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).


 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
are entitled to veterans preference?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
2. Do you have a current (or last) performance rating of at least Fully Successful or the equivalent?
 A. Yes. I am a current Federal employee or have been within the previous 52 weeks and my most recent performance rating of record is at or above the Fully Successful or equivalent level.
 B. I am a current Federal employee but have not yet received a Federal performance rating.
 C. I am not a current Federal employee or have not been during the previous 52 weeks, therefore I do not possess a Federal performance rating.
 D. No. My performance rating is below the Fully Successful or equivalent.
3. Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) in the past 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement
Assessment 1
1. From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.

 A. I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Reviewing production activities and capabilities in light of contract quality requirements; reviewing written quality or inspection procedures for adequacy, and evaluating the implementation and effectiveness of quality/inspection systems, including sampling plans; analyzing quality data to detect unsatisfactory trends or weaknesses in the quality/inspection system; verifying by test or inspection, using sampling inspection or intensive product inspection techniques, that products comply with requirements prior to acceptance; identifying inadequacies and requesting corrective action; computing data, summarizing results, and preparing reports or charts depicting pertinent relationships using statistical methods; investigating customer complaints and deficiency reports, and providing identification of causes to appropriate authorities; reading, interpreting, and applying technical data such as blueprints, engineering drawings, product specifications, or technical manuals; reviewing and evaluating supply systems operations and procedures through periodic audits and surveillance inspections.
 B. I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.
In this part you will respond to questions about your experience as it relates to the position for which you are applying. Carefully review the level descriptions (A to E) listed below. For each task question, choose the level description that best describes your experience and/or training. Your responses must be fully supported within the text of your resume. Failure to properly identify your experience may result in the lowering of your overall score and/or your disqualification for this position.
2. From the following responses, please select the statement that most accurately reflects your experience with analyzing complex quality assurance issues related to petroleum products.

 A. I have received on the job training (OJT) regarding the proper process within my organization for analyzing complex quality assurance issues related to petroleum products.
 B. I have assisted in analyzing complex quality assurance issues related to petroleum products and coordinate solutions across component lines.
 C. I have analyzed complex quality assurance issues related to petroleum products.
 D. None of the above.
3. This position requires sufficient knowledge of chemistry to comprehend the significance of results of the analysis of petroleum-based fuels, chemicals, Aerospace Energy products, and lubricants is required. The incumbent must be able to determine the appropriate corrective actions when necessary. From the following responses, please select the statement that most accurately reflects your experience with chemistry and analyzing the quality of various petroleum products:

 A. I am knowledgeable of chemistry to comprehend the significance of results of the analysis of petroleum-based fuels, chemicals, Aerospace Energy products, and lubricants.
 B. I have extensive experience with chemistry to comprehend the significance of results of the analysis of petroleum-based fuels, chemicals, Aerospace Energy products, and lubricants.
 C. I have received training/taken courses related to chemistry to comprehend the significance of results of the analysis of petroleum-based fuels, chemicals, Aerospace Energy products, and lubricants.
 D. None of the above.
4. From the following responses, please select the statement that most accurately reflects your experience with ensuring that product/service quality requirements, specifications, and laboratory analyses comply with the contract.

 A. I worked on a group responsible for ensuring that product/service quality requirements, specifications, and laboratory analyses complied with the organization's contract(s).
 B. I have assisted a senior specialist responsible for ensuring that product/service quality requirements, specifications, and laboratory analyses complied with the organization's contract(s).
 C. I have chartered a change within my organization based on my own evaluation and application of product/service quality requirements, specifications, and laboratory analyses.
 D. I have completed formal training related to ensuring that product/service quality requirements, specifications, and laboratory analyses complied with the organization's contract(s).
 E. None of the above.
5. From the following responses, please select the statement that most accurately reflects your experience providing quality oversight functions in accordance with regulations and policy, on a non-resident or resident basis on product supply, storage/service contracts and pipeline operating agreements, Into-Plane, Aerospace Energy products, and other commodity contracts.

 A. I provided quality oversight functions to my organization related to petroleum testing, pipeline operating agreements, and ensuring contractor compliance with petroleum storage contracts.
 B. I have had formal training in quality oversight functions to my organization related to petroleum testing, pipeline operating agreements, and ensuring contractor compliance with petroleum storage contracts.
 C. I assisted my co-workers in conducting quality oversight functions to my organization related to petroleum testing, pipeline operating agreements, and ensuring contractor compliance with petroleum storage contracts.
 D. None of the above.
6. Incumbents will plan and lead quality assurance/surveillance programs throughout their assigned Area of Responsibility (AOR), to include bulk fuels, oils, Aerospace Energy products, chemicals, and packaged products. From the following responses, please select the statement that most accurately reflects your experience.

 A. I independently oversee quality assurance/surveillance programs throughout their assigned Area of Responsibility (AOR), to include bulk fuels, oils, Aerospace Energy products, chemicals, and packaged products.
 B. I have assisted co-workers or supervisors with quality assurance/surveillance programs throughout their assigned Area of Responsibility (AOR), to include bulk fuels, oils, Aerospace Energy products, chemicals, and packaged products.
 C. I have served on a team responsible for planning and leading quality assurance/surveillance programs throughout the assigned Area of Responsibility (AOR), to include bulk fuels, oils, Aerospace Energy products, chemicals, and packaged products.
 D. None of the above.
7. This position will be responsible for performing quality oversight functions in accordance with pertinent regulations and policy, on a non-resident or resident basis on product supply, storage/service contracts and pipeline operating agreements, Into-Plane, Aerospace Energy products, and other commodity contracts awarded by the agency. The incumbent performs oversight functions at assigned facilities without direct supervision and reports progress of work to his/her respective supervisor/commander. The incumbent accepts products and services on behalf of DoD authorizing payment to the contractor. From the following responses, please select the statement that most accurately reflects your experience with performing quality oversight functions for your organization.

 A. I am knowledgeable in researching one or more of the technical areas identified above but would need additional training and/or experience before feeling comfortable enough to independently perform quality oversight functions in order to provide advice on specific issues and/or concerns found related to product supply/quality and contract agreements.
 B. I have extensive experience performing quality oversight functions in one or more of the technical areas listed above and I am often called upon to provide advice in resolving these issues.
 C. I have experience in one or more of the technical areas above and am knowledgeable and able to advise on a case-by-case basis on some issues and/or concerns that may be related to my organization's technical and quality oversight functions.
 D. None of the above.
8. For which of the following products have you performed quality oversight functions? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Petroleum Based Fuels
 B. Aerospace Energy Products
 C. Oils and Lubricants
 D. Chemicals
 E. None of the above
9. For which of the following facility types have you performed quality oversight functions? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Bulk fuels
 B. Lubricating oils
 C. Aerospace Energy products
 D. Chemicals
 E. Packaged products
 F. None of the above
10. For which of the following services have you performed quality oversight functions? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Fixed Base Operator (FBO) Commercial Airport
 B. Commercial Pipeline or Storage Facility
 C. Laboratory Testing Facility
 D. COCO Terminal
 E. GOCO Terminal
 F. Commercial Environmental Cleaning Contract
 G. Commercial Refining or Production Plant
 H. None of the above
11. Please select the areas that best reflect your experience in ensuring that quality controls are met. (Select all that apply)

 A. I evaluate contractor's quality processes, procedures, and documentation for completeness, adequacy, and accuracy.
 B. I review contracts and delivery orders pertaining to petroleum products for familiarization, enforcement of clauses and ease of contractor implementation.
 C. I ensure product/service quality requirements, specifications, and laboratory analyses comply with the contract.
 D. I perform mandatory petroleum tests in accordance with the applicable standards.
 E. I conduct investigations and resolve customer complaints/Quality Notifications.
 F. I accept products and/or services authorizing payment to the contractor.
 G. None of the above.
12. From the following responses, please select the statement that most accurately reflects your experience evaluating contractor's quality processes, procedures, and documentation for completeness, adequacy, and accuracy.

 A. I assisted my co-workers in evaluating a contractor?s quality process, procedures, and ensuring the documentation was complete and accurate.
 B. I have had formal training in evaluating a contractor?s quality process, procedures, and ensuring the documentation was complete and accurate.
 C. I have independently evaluated a contractors quality processes, procedures, and documentation for completeness, adequacy, and accuracy as a regular and routine part of my job.
 D. None of the above.
13. From the following responses, please select the statement that most accurately reflects your experience assisting in the development of, presenting and monitoring of (if applicable), Decision Papers, Fact Sheets, Memorandums of Understanding (MOUs), Memorandums of Agreement (MOAs) and oral/visual presentations.

 A. I provided direct assistance in the development of Decision Papers, Fact Sheets, policies, formulating MOUs and MOAs and presentations on a daily basis.
 B. I provided some of the written/oral communications mentioned above and present them when needed.
 C. I have assisted with some of written/oral communications mentioned in the statement.
 D. I have contributed inputs to and coordinated the development of written/oral communications.
 E. None of the above.
14. Incumbents will influence and motivate individuals to correct deficiencies that would otherwise result in unacceptable products. From the following responses, please select the statement that most accurately reflects your experience.

 A. I have independently influence and motivate individuals to correct deficiencies that would otherwise result in unacceptable products.
 B. I have assisted with the influencing and motivating individuals to correct deficiencies that would otherwise result in unacceptable products.
 C. I have worked on a group that was responsible for influencing and motivating individuals to correct deficiencies that would otherwise result in unacceptable products.
 D. None of the above.
15. From the list below, select the response which corresponds to the highest level of education you have achieved. Education claimed may be verified upon selection. If you do not possess or are unable to provide proof of education claimed, you may be found ineligible.

 A. Less than 2 Years of College
 B. Associates Degree OR Two Years College (successfully completed at least 60 semester or 90 quarter hours)
 C. Bachelors Degree OR Four Years College (successfully completed at least 120 semester or 180 quarter hours)
 D. Masters Degree OR Above
16. Have you received an honorary or monetary award from your employer (government civilian, military, or private sector) during the last 3 years?

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected