Position Title
Medical Instrument Technician (Polysomnography)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTD-12761828-25-DML Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 14, 2025 to Tuesday, July 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Medical Instrument Technician (Polysomnography) position with the VA in Burlington, Vermont. We will evaluate your resume and responses to this questionnaire to determine if you have the basic qualifications for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be fully supported by your resume and supporting documents.
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of the position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.
Grandfathering Provision. To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements. Grandfathering Provision: A Medical Instrument Technician (Polysomnography) employed in VHA on the effective date of the qualification standard (06/07/12) are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education and licensure/certification/registration that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. For employees who did not meet all the basic requirements in this standard may not be promoted beyond the full performance level (GS-0649-08) or be newly placed in supervisory or managerial positions until meeting the full qualification requirements.
Basic Qualifications:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. English Language Proficiency: Medical Instrument Technicians must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with chapter 2, section D, paragraph 5a, this part. Are you proficient in English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Grade Level Determinations:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. GS-04 Medical Instrument Technician :

Experience. At least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level (GS-03) which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the position to be filled. Six months of this experience may have been in medically related fields such as nursing assistant, practical nursing, or similar fields. The remaining six months must have been in operating diagnostic and therapeutic equipment covered by this occupation. Experience gained in the operation of equipment for animal diagnosis or treatment may be credited at this level.

OR,

Education. Successful completion of two years of education above high school or an associate's degree with a major field of study directly related to the medical instrument technician occupation.

AND

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the Education/Experience requirement, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs at the GS-04 Grade Level:
Knowledge of basic medical terminology.
Ability to learn the components, operating characteristics, and settings of the equipment to be used.
Ability to learn typical patient reactions to the basic procedures involved and ability to recognize signs of distress.
Ability to learn the standard positions for the procedure being conducted.
Ability to communicate orally and in writing.
Do you meet this education/experience requirement and can demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities for the GS-04 grade level?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your associate's degree. If you do not have an associate's degree indicate N/A.

Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree:
Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4.

GS-05 Medical Instrument Technician :

Experience. At least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level (GS-04) which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the position to be filled. This would be experience in operating equipment related to the particular specialization for which application is made or in related functional areas. Experience gained in the operation of equipment for animal diagnosis or treatment may be credited through this grade level.

OR,

Education. Successful completion of 4 academic years above high school leading to a bachelor's degree with courses related to the occupation, or a bachelor's degree in a major field of study appropriate to medical instrument technician functions.

AND

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the Education/Experience requirement, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs at the GS-05 Grade Level:

Knowledge of standard medical terminology to interpret physician orders or instructions.
Knowledge of common physical disabilities and ability to position patients for the examination or treatment.
Ability to learn the normal and abnormal results for routine procedures to recognize and report obvious abnormalities.
Ability to operate the equipment to administer routine/standard diagnostic treatment or procedures.
Ability to perform standard operator maintenance on the equipment including the ability to disassemble, clean, reassemble, and calibrate the machine.
Do you meet this education/experience requirement and can demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities for the GS-05 grade level?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your bachelor's degree. If you do not have a bachelor's degree indicate N/A.

Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree:
Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
6. GS-06 Medical Instrument Technician (Polysomnography):

Experience. At least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level (GS-05) which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the position to be filled.

AND

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the Education/Experience requirement, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs at the GS-06 Grade Level:
Knowledge of standard, computerized polysomnographs for recording continuous all night physiological data including EEG, EOG, EKG, EMG and respiratory parameters.
Knowledge of standard devices such as oximeters, respiratory effort devices, nasal pressure devices, thermistors, thermocouples, continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) machines, and laboratory computers including the ability to calibrate and operate the equipment and recognize and eliminate recording artifacts.
Knowledge of medical terminology and medical record organization to review medical records, sleep study orders, consent forms, medical charts, etc.
Knowledge of polysomnographic procedural protocols (including overnight sleep studies, MSLT, MWT, PAP, etc.).
Knowledge of basic anatomy and physiology and the international 10-20 electrode placement system in order to conduct the sleep studies.
Do you meet this experience requirement and can demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities for the GS-06 grade level?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. GS-07 Medical Instrument Technician (Polysomnography):

Experience. At least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level (GS-06) which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the position to be filled. This would be experience which provided the individual with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to independently conduct difficult but standardized polysomnography examinations.

AND

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the Experience requirement, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs at the GS-07 Grade Level:
Knowledge of CPAP function and operation to select and fit appropriate PAP patient interface devices.
Ability to independently titrate and document PAP level to achieve therapeutic goals.
Knowledge of indications, complications, and contraindications of CPAP therapy.
Knowledge of Bi-Level pressure titrations.
Ability to recognize changes seen during the PSG tracing and identify all stages of sleep. This includes the ability to score and analyze sleep stages in clinical polysomnography recordings.
Do you meet this experience requirement and can demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities for the GS-07 grade level?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. GS-08 Medical Instrument Technician (Polysomnography): Full Performance Level 

Experience. At least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level (GS-07) which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the positions to be filled. This would be experience which provided a knowledge of the more complex procedures as well as knowledge of the uncommon and/or rare sleep disorders.

AND

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the Experience requirement, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs at the GS-08 Grade Level:
Advanced knowledge or the International Classification of Sleep Disorders and the ability to recognize uncommon and/or rare sleep disorders.
Ability to summarize and report polysomnographic data in narrative form.
Knowledge of event characteristics (e.g., respiratory, cardiac, sleep stage, seizures, etc.) and ability to take appropriate action.
Ability to provide briefings and orientation to hospital staff including physicians.
Do you meet this experience requirement and can demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities for the GS-08 grade level?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Certification: No certification is required at the GS-06, GS-07, GS-08 levels; however, it is desirable that employees at this level have Basic Cardiac Life Support (BCLS) and/or Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) certifications.

Do you possess one of these certifications?

Note: If you possess the listed certifications above, please upload a copy to support your application.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Please provide your certification information. If you are not certified, indicate N/A.
Name on certification:
Issuing entity:
Complete certification/ID number:
Expiration date:
SF-50 REMINDER: Current and former Federal employees must submit copies of their most recent SF-50 (Notice of Personnel Action). The SF-50 must identify the position title, series, grade, step, tenure and type of service (Competitive or Excepted). In some cases, more than one SF-50 may be required to show a higher grade previously held. Do not submit an award SF-50 as it does not provide the required information to determine your status and eligibility.
RESUME REMINDER: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed. Your name and contact information. Company name , location and department for each job held. Job title and Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2017 to April 2018) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Grade and step for all federal positions held. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected