Position Title
Creative Arts Therapist (Music)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12773538-25-LE Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 1, 2025 to Friday, August 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
The basic requirements for employment as a VHA Creative Arts Therapist (GS-0638) are prescribed by Public Law 96-151 codified in 38 U.S.C. 7402. To qualify for appointment, all applicants for the position of Creative Arts Therapist in VHA must meet the following: NOTE: Applicants pending the completion of educational or certification/licensure requirements may be referred and tentatively selected but may not be hired until all requirements are met.
To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements. Grandfathering Provision: A Psychologist employed in VHA on the effective date of the qualification standard (6/7/2019) who did not meet all the basic requirements in this standard may not be promoted beyond the full performance level (GS-00638-11) or be newly placed in supervisory or managerial positions until meeting the full qualification requirements.
1. Are you a past, current or upcoming Health Professional Trainee (HPT) who has spent all or part of your clinical training experience at a VA facility, or are you a Health Professional Scholarship Program (HPSP) recipient?
 A. Yes. I have provided details in the narrative below.
 B. No.
1a. Please provide the following information regarding your HPT Clinical Training Experience:
Location of VA facility.
Dates attended.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. English Language Proficiency: Candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Basic Education Requirement: The basic requirements for employment as a VHA Creative Arts Therapist are prescribed by Public Law 96-151 codified in 38 U.S.C. § 7402. To qualify for appointment, all applicants for the position of psychologist in VHA must meet the following:
A bachelor's degree or higher, from an accredited college or university, in music therapy, or in music with an emphasis in music therapy. The degree must be approved by the National Association for Schools of Music and/or the American Music Therapy Association.
~OR~
A bachelor's degree or higher, from an accredited college or university, and must be a board-certified music therapist (MT-BC) approved by the Certification Board for Music Therapists (CBMT). If hired under this education, the certification cannot be waived.
~OR~
Foreign Education. To be creditable, education completed outside the U.S. must have been submitted to a private organization that specializes in the interpretation of foreign educational credentials. The private organization must deem such education at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. programs.
Do you meet this Basic Educational Requirement?

**Please note: Transcripts that show applicant name, school attended, degree earned and date conferred must be provided. Failure to include transcripts will result in being rated as ineligible for further consideration.
 A. Yes, I meet the Basic Educational Requirements and have submitted a legible copy of my transcripts; or I am a current VHA Employee in the 00638 occupational series that is covered under the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard.
 B. Yes, I am a current or former HPT Trainee and eligible for this announcement.
 C. No, I do not meet the Basic Educational Requirements or I have chosen not to submit a legible copy of my transcripts.
4. Certification: Applicants must be a MT-BC approved by the CBMT. Applicants must be a MT-BC approved by the CBMT. If hired under paragraph 4b(5)(b), certification cannot be waived.

Exception. Non-registered and/or non-certified applicants, who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for registration and/or certification, may be given a temporary appointment as a graduate recreation or creative arts therapist, under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(c)(2)(B), for a period not to exceed two years. Applicants who fail to obtain registration and/or certification during this temporary full-time appointment may be terminated. The exception only applies to positions at the GS-7 and GS-9 level.

Are you MT-BC approved by the CBMT?
 A. Yes, I am MT-BC approved by the CBMT or I am a current or former HPT Trainee and eligible for this announcement.
 B. No, I do not meet the Certification Requirement.
4a. Please provide your certification information.
Certification Type:
State Issued:
Date Issued:
Expiration Date:
5. GS-7 (Entry Level) Grade Determinations: In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met:
Experience: None beyond the basic requirements.
Do you meet the GS-7 Grade Determination Requirements?
 A. Yes, I meet the GS-7 Grade Determination Requirements.
 B. No, I do not meet the GS-7 Grade Determination Requirements.
6. GS-9 (Developmental Level) Grade Determinations: In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met:
Experience: At least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level or a Master's degree in creative arts therapy (music) may be substituted for the required one year of professional creative arts therapist (music) experience is required.
~AND~
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs): In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs: 
Ability to perform a varied repertoire of popular, folk, and traditional songs appropriate for use in a clinical setting using at least two of the following: keyboard, voice, guitar, percussion or other musical instruments suitable to a clinical setting.
Knowledge of the roles and meaning of music in various cultures and subcultures.
Knowledge to design, develop, or adapt unique music therapy methods for assessment, treatment, or a palliation and evaluation procedures.
Skill to apply objectivity and insight to respond and constructively to both positive and negative reactions while maintaining a safe environment for the patient and therapist.
Do you meet all the above GS-9 Grade Determination Requirements and does your application clearly demonstrate experience that supports all the listed KSAs?
 A. Yes, I meet all the above GS-9 Grade Determination Requirements and my application clearly demonstrates experience that supports all the listed KSAs.
 B. No, I do not meet one or more of the GS-9 Grade Determination Requirements or I am unable to clearly demonstrate experience related to one or more of the listed KSAs.
7. GS-11 (Full Performance Levell) Grade Determinations: In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met:
Experience: At least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level.
~AND~
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs): In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Knowledge of the roles and meaning of music in various cultures and subcultures, how culture influences identity formation, concepts of health and pathology, and understanding of the role of music therapy and how music therapy is practiced.
Knowledge of current methods of music therapy assessment, treatment, and evaluation related to human growth and development, musical development, diagnostic classifications, etiology, symptomatology, and prognosis in formulating complex treatment plans, including the contraindications of music therapy for individuals and groups.
Ability to design, develop, or adapt unique music therapy methods for assessment, treatment or palliation, and evaluation procedures for complex clinical cases, through a broad range of specialized music therapy services for various and emerging patient populations.
Ability to use music therapy interventions to provide opportunities to work through treatment issues, including emotional disturbances, by establishing a safe environment for the patient to understand the symbolic expression of their musical product, process, and experience as it relates to recovery and wellness.
Ability to apply effective use of professional skill, objectivity, and insight to respond constructively to both positive and negative reactions, establish and maintain a therapeutic relationship with professional boundaries to reflect trusting, empathetic, and respectful interactions.
Ability to apply current research literature and co-facilitate treatment with professionals from other disciplines, the uses of the creative arts therapies and recreation therapy, as well as understanding emerging models and trends in music therapy.
Do you meet the GS-11 Grade Determination Requirements?
 A. Yes, I meet the GS-11 Grade Determination Requirements.
 B. No, I do not meet the GS-11 Grade Determination Requirements.
RESUME REMINDER: ALTHOUGH NOT REQUIRED, ITS HIGHLY RECOMMENDED THAT APPLICANTS COMPLETE THEIR RESUME' USING THE USAJOBS RESUME' BUILDER. Resume must include how to contact you phone number and/or email address. Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:

(REQUIRED)
(1.) Employer's Name
(2.) Employer's City and State
(3.) Job title (Federal jobs must be separated by title and grade level(s))
(4.) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
(5.) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week...i.e. 40 hours per week, 32 hours per week, 20 hours per week, etc.)
(6.) Duties (be as detailed as possible, you must include enough detailed information to support your specialized experience)
(7.) Details of your experience and clearly document your ability to demonstrate the KSAs of grade level you are applying for.

Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we can fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy.

We do not make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

TRANSCRIPTS REMINDER - If you are basing your qualifications on education or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you MUST submit a copy of your transcripts (official or unofficial) or an appropriate course listing with your application. Failure to provide copy of transcripts will result in NOT being referred.

LICENSE REMINDER - You must submit a copy of your license with initial issue date. 

SF-50(s) REMINDER - Applicants who are current Federal employees must upload a copy of their SF-50(s), dated in the current calendar year, with application. An SF-50(s) that shows your eligibility to apply for this position must be submitted with your application materials.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected