Position Title
BORDER PATROL AGENT (HEADQUARTERS PROGRAMS)
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
USBP-IMP-12786060-JRB Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 27, 2025 to Wednesday, September 10, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of GS-13?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. CBP or Federal employees who competed for and currently hold, or previously held, a permanent GS-13 (or equivalent) or higher, may be referred for selection without competition under our agency promotion procedures.  Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
2. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
3. Are you proficient and able to communicate in the Spanish language?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. This position meets the definition of secondary Law Enforcement Officer retirement coverage under the laws and regulations defined in 5 U.S.C. 8331 Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) and General Provisions for Law Enforcement Officers defined in 5 U.S.C. 8402(d), Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS). The criterion is that knowledge, skill and ability in a position deemed to meet primary Law Enforcement Officer special retirement coverage is a mandatory prerequisite to satisfactorily perform the major duties and responsibilities of this job. The conditions for coverage of a secondary position are contained in 5 C.F.R. § 831.904 CSRS and 5 C.F.R. § 842.803 for FERS. As defined by 5 CFR § 831.902 CSRS and 5 CFR § 842.802 FERS, to be eligible for this secondary administrative law enforcement officer Retirement covered position you must have permanently served in a primary law enforcement officer Retirement System covered position, i.e. Border Patrol Agent, GS-1896, CBP Enforcement Officer, GS-1895, Air Interdiction Agent, GS-1881, Marine Interdiction Agent, GS-1801, Aviation Enforcement Agent, GS-1801, or an equivalent private sector law enforcement position.

Do you meet the requirements for a secondary administrative law enforcement position listed above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that by not meeting this requirement that I will be removed from further consideration.
5. This position requires the ability to operate a Government Owned Vehicle. Do you have a valid, non-restricted driver's license or will you be able to obtain a valid, non-restricted driver's license before the time of appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. I understand that if selected for this position, I will be on a time-limited temporary promotion or reassignment and may be returned to my permanent or a similar position prior to the not-to-exceed date.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Have you engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, holding facility, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution as defined in 42 U.S.C. § 1997?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Have you been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or where the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse, or have you been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in such activity?
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Conviction under Federal, State, or Tribal Court of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or child is disqualifying. An intimate partner means, with respect to a person, the spouse of the person, a former spouse of the person, an individual who is a parent of a child of the person, an individual who cohabitates or has cohabited with the person. Have you ever been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or a child?
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you the subject of any Federal, State, or Tribal court-ordered restraining (protection) order for domestic abuse, including harassing, stalking, or threatening an intimate partner or a child?
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
13. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under non-temporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
Assessment 1
The following question will only be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-13 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level that includes: Collaborating with Border Patrol managers in the collection, formulation, and development of Border Patrol objectives; Reviewing Border Patrol data and program metrics, and recommending the use or development of best practices; Assisting with specific projects that included enforcement operations, intelligence collection and reporting, administrative and logistical support; Creating reports utilizing information from Border Patrol databases and operations for purposes of formulating budget recommendations.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
2. Select the option that best describes your experience assisting with Border Patrol mission-specific projects.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task
 B. I have assisted and provided input to my superiors or subject matter experts tasked with leading Border Patrol mission-specific projects.
 C. I have participated in drafting proposals for the implementation of new Border Patrol mission-specific projects.
 D. I have led the development and implementation of new Border Patrol mission specific projects.
3. Select the option that best describes your experience developing tactical, operational, and strategic plans for the execution of projects and operations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had some experience in developing tactical or operational plans for either a small project or for a brief period of time.
 C. I have developed tactical or operational plans for work for my immediate work unit or project team on a continuous basis.
 D. I have developed tactical, operational, and strategic plans for the execution of multiple projects and continuous operations.
4. Indicate the extent of your experience in improving the efficiency and quality of work performed.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have made specific changes that have improved my efficiency and the quality of my work.
 C. I have recommended specific changes that have improved my work unit's efficiency and the quality of its work.
 D. I have recommended changes that have been adopted by multiple work units and have improved their efficiency and the quality of their work.
5. Select the option that best describes your experience evaluating system changes for effectiveness.

 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have assisted a more senior employee by applying qualitative and quantitative techniques to evaluate the effectiveness of implemented changes to systems or programs.
 C. I have independently applied qualitative and quantitative techniques to evaluate the effectiveness of implemented changes to systems or programs.
 D. I have developed qualitative and quantitative metrics or analyses to measure the effectiveness of implemented changes to systems or programs.
6. Select the option that best describes your experience preparing budget justifications based on staffing, facilities, and equipment.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have reviewed budget requests and tracked transactions to support or justify obligations, taking into account staffing, facilities, and equipment.
 C. I have developed and prepared budgets, budget requests, and proposed expenditures to support an organization's mission, taking into account staffing, facilities, and equipment.
 D. I have developed budget requirements that included the reallocation of funds to support facilities, staff, and services.
7. Select the option that best describes your experience in translating goals into action plans.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have participated in a local process or project to identify action items that support established program goals.
 C. I have led a local process or project to establish action items that support established program goals.
 D. I have led a process or project for the conversion of agency goals to the action items for a principal organizational unit or equivalent. I have monitored the resulting action plans, made appropriate adjustments, and measured goal accomplishment.
8. Select the choice that best describes your level of skill in evaluating information rapidly, making timely decisions, and taking appropriate actions.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have evaluated information, made a timely decision, and took appropriate action for routine or recurring problems or issues.
 C. I have evaluated moderately complex information rapidly, made timely decisions, and took appropriate actions that were successful.
 D. I have evaluated large quantities of information rapidly, made timely decisions, and took appropriate actions that successfully resolved highly complex, intricate, or sensitive problems or issues.
9. Select the choice which best describes your ability to work in or lead work-related teams.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have participated as a team member, receiving task assignments and project goals from my supervisor or team leader.
 C. I have served as a team leader, communicating task assignments and project goals to team members and monitoring progress.
 D. I have led several teams, ensuring that team members met project goals and deadlines and evaluating individual team member performance.
10. Select the choice which best describes your ability to develop and maintain effective relationships (liaison) with law enforcement personnel and state and local government entities.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have maintained relationships with law enforcement personnel and state and local government entities primarily in the completion of my regular job duties or in my response to specific inquiries.
 C. I have maintained relationships with law enforcement personnel and state and local government entities to exchange information, resolve problems, or participate in joint task forces/teams.
 D. I have developed and maintained extensive relationships with law enforcement personnel and state and local government entities to resolve problems, plan joint task force/team projects, and establish long-term working relationships.
11. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of the Border Patrol Mission, national strategy, policy, and operations.

 A. I have no knowledge of the Border Patrol mission and national strategy.
 B. I have a basic understanding of the Border Patrol mission, national strategy, policy, and operations.
 C. I have a working understanding of the Border Patrol mission, national strategy, policy, and operations, and have applied this understanding during the course of my day-to-day duties.
 D. I have an extensive understanding of the Border Patrol mission, national strategy, policy, and operations. I am frequently consulted on strategy and policy based on my expertise.
12. Select the choice which best describes your ability to manage projects (e.g., set goals, identify issues, and prioritize projects) for the U.S. Border Patrol.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have followed process timelines, goals, and guidelines prepared by my supervisor.
 C. Under the close guidance of others, I have developed project plans (for example, set timelines, established metrics, identified necessary resources).
 D. I have independently managed one or more projects for the U.S. Border Patrol that were limited in scope. I have had responsibility for setting timelines, establishing metrics, and identifying necessary resources.
 E. I have independently planned, implemented, and managed multiple projects for the U.S. Border Patrol that were broad in scope or were complex, involving multiple entities. I have had responsibility for ensuring that needed resources were provided, metrics were tracked, and goals were accomplished.
13. Select the choice which best describes your ability to negotiate with internal and external groups.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have conferred with others on an individual basis to resolve work-related problems or held discussions aimed at persuading others to agree with my viewpoint.
 C. I have conferred and negotiated with internal groups to facilitate program implementation or find mutually acceptable approaches to work-related problems.
 D. I have successfully conducted negotiations about sensitive, work-related subjects with both internal and external groups.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected