Position Title
Health Technician
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-12766871-25-BS Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 17, 2025 to Friday, July 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
The assessment part of the questionnaire includes questions about your eligibility and minimum qualifications related to this position. Please read each part and answer appropriately.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY: In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d) and 38 U.S.C. 7407(d), no person shall service in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English.

Select the appropriate answer below regarding your proficiency in the English language.Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 A. Yes
 B. No

Please select the answer that best describes your experience and/or education for this position. (Please include detailed examples on your resume to support your response below)
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. For GS-5: Do you possess one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-4 level which demonstrates your ability to:
Consult with supervisor or the individual providing clinical oversight for guidance not covered by instructions.
Consult with the physician, therapist and/or senior pedorthist/orthotist/prosthetist staff members to obtain and understand the prescription.
Conduct patient assessments, take scans and measurements for simple devices, and prepares and modifies casts for simple devices.
Provide patients with simple devices, patient/caregiver education, and assists with complex device types with minimal clinical oversight and direction of a credentialed pedorthist, orthotist or CPO.
Assist with assessment of the device for structural soundness, compliance with the prescription, fit and patient comfort upon completion of the fabrication of simple and complex devices.
Develop a follow up treatment plan for typical conditions.
Observe the casting and provision of advanced device types.
AND
Have you successfully completed a full 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree, with major study or at least 24 semester hours in subjects directly related to the position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. For GS-6: Do you possess one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-5 level which demonstrates your ability to:
Possess a broad working knowledge of simple and complex device types.
Independently takes scans and measurements; prepares and modifies casts and repairs and fabricates complex devices in accordance with the input of the individual providing clinical oversight.
Provide complex devices and delivers patient/caregiver education for them.
Assess simple and complex devices for quality including structural soundness, compliance with the prescription, fit and patient comfort.
Assist with advanced device types to include quality assurance assessment.
Assist with development of a follow up treatment plan for atypical conditions.
Assist with administrative activities including, but not limited to;
 assignment of Healthcare Procedure Coding System (HCPCS) coding of pedorthic devices to facilitate procurement;
preparation of documentation for Veterans being sent to vendors;
participating on interdisciplinary teams, and;
processing consults and generating administrative orders for procurement of pedorthic devices.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. For GS-7: Do you possess one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-6 level which demonstrates your ability to:
Communicate and interact with physicians, allied health professionals, patients and caregivers in various interdisciplinary clinical settings as a subject matter expert to develop the pedorthic treatment plan.
Provide complex patient analyses in accordance with established procedures for patients with unusual conditions, multiple complex conditions and interrelated conditions.
Assess patients for indications/contra-indications.
Discuss the assessment with the physician/requesting provider for the purpose of developing the overall treatment plan with considerable influence in the development of the plan.
Analyze the potential use of new and emerging technologies in designing unique or innovative pedorthic devices to accommodate or treat a wide range of complex medical conditions which include unusual problems or complications.
Take scans and measurements for advanced devices, prepares and modifies casts for advanced devices, repairs and fabricates advanced devices and provides patient/caregiver education for advanced devices.
Recognize physical abnormalities, deviations and complicating conditions with potentially life-threatening implications.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected