Position Title
Financial Program Specialist
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OF-IMP-12780377-JMS Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 13, 2025 to Tuesday, August 19, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
11
12
2. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-9 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-9 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-9 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-11 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
4. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
5. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-12 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes: Evaluating financial systems and records; Providing information about financial program areas and processes; Identifying and reporting underlying problems or trends and determining alternative actions; Monitoring performance management systems, verifying accuracy of financial data; Assisting accounting technicians in resolving problems and providing technical guidance to lower-graded specialists.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
6. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience and/or education to qualify for the GS-11 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes: Preparing instructions and procedures relating to processes; Reviewing regulations, directives and guidelines to update processes; Compiling and analyzing data used to improve service; Preparing portions of financial information or statements used to manage accounting projects; Suggesting changes to systems; Assisting accountants and higher-graded specialists with studies or project work.
 B. I have successfully completed 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a degree from an accredited college or university, a doctoral degree and or LL.M., if related, that demonstrates the skills necessary to do the work. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 C. I have a combination of successfully completed education and experience that is at least 100% as described in the Combining Experience and Education statement in the announcement posting. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 D. I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.
7. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
8. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
9. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
Assessment 1
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
1. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of financial management principles and practices.

 A. I have no knowledge of financial management principles and practices.
 B. I have some knowledge of financial management principles and practices that I have gained during the course of my normal duties.
 C. I have broad knowledge of financial management principles and practices and have experience participating in discussions with financial program managers and decision-makers who sought my technical opinion.
 D. I have extensive knowledge of financial management principles and practices. I have served as a key advisor to senior leadership and have provided formal briefings on financial management to internal and/or external stakeholders.
2. Indicate the extent of your experience evaluating accounting systems and records.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have used accounting systems and created accounting records as part of my normal work duties.
 C. I have evaluated existing accounting systems and records to ensure accuracy and conformity with organizational standards.
 D. I have overseen the evaluation of accounting systems and records used throughout my organization. I have reviewed the evaluation results and have been responsible for recommending and coordinating necessary changes identified in the results.
3. Indicate the extent of your experience providing information about accounting program areas and processes.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have provided basic information about accounting program areas and processes to my coworkers.
 C. I have provided technical information about accounting program areas and processes to my coworkers and supervisors.
 D. I am considered an expert in accounting program areas and processes, and am frequently called upon by management to provide information about these subjects to employees at all levels within my organization.
4. Indicate the extent of your experience in ensuring automated systems are in compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and other guidance.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have used automated systems during the course of my regular duties, but I have not been responsible for determining their compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and other guidance.
 C. I have worked as a member of a team responsible for reviewing an automated system to determine its compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and other guidance.
 D. I have been responsible for ensuring multiple automated systems used in my work unit were in compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and other guidance.
 E. I have held the primary responsibility for ensuring multiple automated systems used across my organization were in compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and other guidance.
5. Indicate the extent of your experience in identifying and reporting underlying problems or trends and determining alternative actions.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have identified, defined, described, and compared corrective actions for routine or recurring problems or issues.
 C. I have evaluated moderately complex problems or issues and I have developed and recommended changes or corrective actions that were successful.
 D. I have identified and implemented improvements, alternative strategies, or innovative approaches that successfully resolved highly complex, intricate, or sensitive problems or issues.
6. Indicate the extent of your experience in monitoring performance measurements to evaluate the effectiveness of operations or assist in program administration.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have made recommendations based on my evaluation of performance measurements used to determine the effectiveness of operations and/or program administration.
 C. I have developed performance measurements used to evaluate the effectiveness of operations and/or assist in program administration, and have monitored the use of these measurements.
 D. I have supervised the development of performance measurements used to evaluate the effectiveness of operations and program administration, as well as the evaluation of operations and program administration.
7. Indicate the extent to which you have verified the accuracy of data.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have reviewed small data sets to identify errors and inconsistencies.
 C. I have reviewed large and complex data sets and have resolved errors, reconciled inconsistencies, and ensured conformity with organizational standards.
8. Indicate the extent of your experience in organizing and coordinating work.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had limited experience in organizing and coordinating my own work in order to meet the organization's planning needs and requirements.
 C. I have organized and coordinated my work as well as the day-to-day work of my immediate work unit in order to meet the organization's planning needs and requirements.
 D. I have directed and overseen the organization and coordination of work for a multi-unit organization to ensure the organization's planning needs and requirements were met. I established criteria and priorities and reviewed, amended, and consolidated work plans developed by subordinates.
9. Indicate the extent of your experience in providing timely and effective customer service in a work setting by answering questions and gathering information about customers' needs.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have responded to and resolved routine customer requests for information and gathered extensive information about their needs.
 C. I have independently responded to and resolved complex customer requests for information and ensured the accuracy, reliability, or acceptability of processes and services.
10. Indicate the extent of your experience in preparing instructions and procedures.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have reviewed existing instructions and procedures for a group or functional process and have made minor edits to improve the clarity or accuracy of the content.
 C. I have made significant revisions to outdated instructions and procedures for group and functional processes.
 D. I have created instructions and procedures for new group and functional processes. These instructions and procedures have been implemented by my work unit or organization.
11. Indicate the extent of your experience in evaluating policies and procedures.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have worked as part of a team responsible for evaluating new or revised policies and procedures.
 C. I have independently evaluated new or revised policies and procedures and have made minor edits and revisions to improve the accuracy and clarity of the content.
 D. I have extensive experience evaluating new and revised policies and procedures and have made significant revisions to improve the accuracy and clarity of the content.
12. Indicate the extent of your experience in coordinating policy and procedural changes.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have been responsible for communicating policy and procedural changes to affected employees in my work unit.
 C. I have developed a formal plan for the communication and implementation of policy and procedural changes to affected employees across several work units.
 D. I have extensive experience directing the communication, implementation, and monitoring of significant policy and procedural changes across my organization.
13. Indicate the extent of your experience in improving processes for an organization.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have gathered and analyzed data for my work unit (e.g., customer service data) as part of an effort to improve processes.
 C. I have gathered and analyzed data for my organization (e.g., customer service data) and have used that data to improve processes.
 D. I have gathered and analyzed data for my organization (e.g., customer service data) and have used that to develop new processes that have been successfully implemented across my organization.
14. Indicate the extent of your experience in monitoring process workflows.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have worked as part of a team responsible for monitoring process workflows to identify improvements to associated proccesses and procedures.
 C. I have led a team responsible for monitoring process workflows to identify improvements to associated processes and procedures that resulted in cost savings for the organization.
 D. I have directed multiple teams in the monitoring of process workflows. I have led the implementation of multiple cost saving measures that resulted from the teams' findings, to include improvements to associated processes and procedures and enhancements to resource planning and utilization practices.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected