Position Title
Standardization Evaluator
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
AMO-IMP-12769162-HJB Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 30, 2025 to Tuesday, August 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of GS-13?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. CBP or Federal employees who competed for and currently hold, or previously held, a permanent GS-13 (or equivalent) or higher, may be referred for selection without competition under our agency promotion procedures.  Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under non-temporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
3. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
4. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
5. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
6. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-13 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes developing and maintaining course syllabus, lesson plans, grade sheets, and evaluations; Identifying deficiencies in training and/or procedures and non-standard practices; Reviewing recommendations for remedial training, termination of training, decertification, and recertification during all stages of training; and Recommending new or revised procedures, techniques, or operational concepts to ensure standards are met.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
7. This vacancy has a local commuting area requirement, as defined below:
The area surrounding the duty station by which people reasonably travel back and forth from home to work; Or
The employee's permanent duty station is located within the reasonable travel area surrounding the duty station of this vacancy; Or if applicable
For employees who are detailed or temporarily promoted (for less than 1 year) to another duty location, the permanent duty location is considered to be the duty location of record for commuting area purposes.
For employees who are detailed or temporarily promoted (for more than 1 year) to another duty location, the detailed or temporary duty location is considered to be the duty location of record for commuting area purposes.
Do you meet the local commuting area requirement?
 A. A. Yes, I meet the local commuting area requirement as defined above.
 B. B. No, I do not meet the local commuting area requirement as defined above.
Assessment 1
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
1. Select the option that best describes your experience in preparing and administering examinations, simulations, and evaluations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have participated in examinations and simulations.
 C. I have administered examinations and evaluations, and have made minor recommendations to improve the clarity or accuracy of the content.
 D. I have created new examinations, evaluations and simulations, and these procedures have been implemented by my work unit or organization.
2. Select the option that best describes your experience maintaining program and administrative reference materials, project files, and relevant background documents.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had some experience assisting others in the completion of program and administrative reference materials, project files, and relevant background documents.
 C. I have independently created program and administrative reference materials, project files, and relevant background documents that have been disseminated to my work unit.
 D. I have been responsible for creating and maintaining administrative reference materials, project files, and relevant background documents for my organization. I have periodically participated in administrative reviews to ensure all documents were in compliance with applicable laws and policies.
3. Select the option that best describes your experience in reviewing and validating qualitative and quantitative data in official reports and databases.

 A. I have no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have entered qualitative and quantitative data into an automated system.
 C. I have entered qualitative and quantitative data, created reports and conducted queries in an automated system.
 D. I have made recommendations to improve automated systems to house required qualitative and quantitative data, and instructed others on how to input data.
 E. I have created new automated systems to house required qualitative and quantitative data. I have trained others to input data into these systems, and have reviewed their work for accuracy.
4. Select the option that best describes your experience evaluating skill and proficiency of personnel in detection, analysis and enforcement operations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have evaluated skill and proficiency of staff in detection, analysis and enforcement operations as part of a team under close supervision of senior staff members.
 C. I have evaluated skill and proficiency of staff in detection, analysis and enforcement operations as part of an assessment team.
 D. I have led the assessment team tasked with evaluating skill and proficiency of staff in detection, analysis and enforcement operations.
5. Select the choice which best describes your experience working with designated units to complete a work-related project.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have been a member of a unit tasked with a specific work-related project or goal that successfully met its goals and objectives.
 C. I have led one or more units tasked with a complex or challenging work-related project that successfully met its goals and objectives.
 D. I have provided direction and supervision to those responsible for leading units tasked with complex or challenging work-related projects.
6. Select the option that best describes your experience dealing with sensitive information (e.g., classified information, operationally sensitive information, intelligence information, employee information, etc.).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received basic training in this area and have been responsible for querying, interpreting, and analyzing data acquired through use of the DHS Domain Awareness Network.
 C. On occasion, I have provided guidance and direction to other agency personnel for querying, interpreting, and analyzing data acquired through use of the DHS Domain Awareness Network.
 D. I have routinely provided expert guidance and direction, and evaluated agency personnel on querying, interpreting, and analyzing data acquired through use of the DHS Domain Awareness Network.
 E. I have been responsible for oversight of a team of experts tasked with evaluating agency personnel, national, and international partners querying, interpreting, and analyzing data acquired through use of the DHS Domain Awareness Network.
7. Select the option that best describes your experience reviewing quality control procedures in support of law enforcement investigations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in quality review of data sets to identify potentially erroneous data that could have negative impacts on current investigations.
 C. I have independently performed quality review of data to identify potentially erroneous data. I have developed recommendations for how to flag and handle erroneous data (e.g., removing outliers) so as not to adversely affect ongoing investigations.
 D. I have overseen the quality review of data to identify potentially erroneous information and have been ultimately responsible for determining how to flag and address erroneous information or data. I have prepared documentation detailing steps that were taken to evaluate the data, decisions made regarding problem resolution, and actions taken to resolve data issues.
8. Select the option that best describes your experience in assessing training program compliance with policies and regulations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have worked as a member of a team tasked with evaluating personnel.
 C. I have been part of a team that worked with an organization's training program to ensure training was compliant with operational policies, and recommended changes to techniques.
 D. I have overseen the evaluation of an organizational program for compliance with standards, policies and regulations, identified deficiencies and implemented changes to programs and procedures.
9. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of evidence and intelligence gathering techniques of potential criminal activity using radar or other sensor systems.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I am familiar with radar and other sensor systems but I have not applied it to gathering evidence and intelligence of potential criminal activity.
 C. I have some experience as a Detection Enforcement Officer and using radar and other sensor systems to gather evidence and intelligence of potential criminal activity.
 D. I have experience as a Detection Enforcement Officer and I am considered an expert in the application of radar and other sensor systems to gather evidence and intelligence of potential criminal activity.
 E. I have experience as a Detection Enforcement Officer. I have led teams in the expert application of radar and other sensor systems to gather evidence and intelligence of potential criminal activity. I am frequently called upon to provide informal and formal training on the techniques to other employees.
10. Indicate the extent of your knowledge analyzing evidence and intelligence and distinguishing between lawful activity and potentially criminal activity.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had limited experience analyzing evidence and intelligence and distinguishing between lawful activity and potentially criminal activity.
 C. I have assisted others in performing analyses of evidence and intelligence and distinguishing between lawful activity and potentially criminal activity.
 D. I have independently analyzed evidence and intelligence and distinguished between lawful activity and potentially criminal activity. I have trained others in the analysis and interpretation techniques.
11. Do you have experience using computerized radar and other sensor systems used to analyze target detections, conduct surveillance and monitoring, interpret intelligence data, operational reports, and messages, and how they relate to the detection and identification of illicit activities.

 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Select the choice that best describes your ability to gather information, determine its importance, and communicate it by a variety of methods.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in researching key information and preparing various forms of communications.
 C. I have independently identified the need for information, researched relevant topics, and developed various forms of communications.
 D. I have experience managing multiple information requests or projects, developing a variety of complex forms of communications, and delivering them to all levels of leadership throughout an organization.
13. Select the choice that best describes your ability to develop and maintain effective relationships (liaison) with individuals internal and external to your work group, office, and organization.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have maintained relationships with individuals in my work group or office, primarily in the completion of my regular job duties or in my response to specific inquiries.
 C. I have maintained relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group and office to exchange information, resolve problems, or participate in joint task forces/teams.
 D. I have developed and maintained extensive relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group, office, and organization to resolve problems, plan joint task force/team projects, and establish long-term working relationships.
14. Select the option that best describes your experience evaluating and providing feedback on problematic, contradictory or omitted policies with potential impact on national security operations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have provided feedback to a supervisor or more senior individual on problematic trends and patterns with potential impact on national security operations.
 C. I have evaluated and provided feedback directly to internal and external stakeholders on problematic trends and patterns with potential impact on national security operations
 D. I have identified problematic trends and patterns with potential impact on national security operations and implemented solutions to address the problematic areas.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected