Position Title
HR SPECIALIST (INFORMATION SYSTEMS)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
OH-12777978-AR-25-282-T5 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 14, 2025 to Thursday, August 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. All on-board federal employees/technicians within the state for which you are applying (Title 32 and Title 5, Permanent and Excepted Indefinite).  Are you a current on-board federal employee or technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1, 2,or 3).
 A. Yes
 B. No
AREA OF CONSIDERATION
1. Are you a current on-board technician within the OHNG HRO Directorate?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.

Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you have 1-year specialized experience must be equivalent to at least the next lower grade; experience that prepared you to perform the duties of the position; demonstrate the specialized experience competencies (skills, knowledge, abilities and behaviors) to qualify for a position identified by its position grade and career level; specialized experience factors encompass human resources program's business competencies, familiarity with the subject matter or processes used in human resources programs associated with DoD, U.S. Army, or U.S. Air Force; experience in managing the function of the work to be performed; experience which includes leading, directing and assigning work of personnel?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
2. Serves as the state technical advisor for HR Information Systems (automated personnel systems, automated records management systems, case management systems, personnel records applications, HR In-Processing via virtual platforms, and virtual personnel services) with a thorough understanding of HRO functional areas and internal processes (e.g., Staffing, Benefits, etc.) and how those inter-relationships impact processing of personnel actions. Works to resolve complex issues that arise which impact multiple functional areas within the HRO. Plans, organizes, manages, and performs duties necessary to accomplish information systems management functions in support of HR programs essential to state Army/Air National Guard operations, training, and readiness missions. Applies an expert knowledge of HR management rules, regulations, policies, and procedures that have impact on or are related to HR systems and applications. Provides management advisory services to all levels of customers requiring knowledge of each HRO functional area. Researches, analyzes, recommends, and resolves a variety of complex issues relating to national HR information systems. Designs and develops reports using policies, procedures, regulations, and a wide variety of data within the automated HR personnel system to provide decision making information. Utilizes current data reporting tools to analyze data and provide business intelligence products to senior leadership. Serves as a State-Level expert in providing analysis, evaluations, and recommendations for implementation of HR information systems.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
3. Provides technical support services to system users in the field. Develops and interprets policy for HRO functional areas as it relates to HR information systems and applications. Develops impact statements and recommends changes as deemed necessary which may be adopted as internal policy. Provides advice to HRO staff and serviced organization officials to ensure timely implementation of new subsystems and/or enhancements to new or existing systems. Assists with technical, functional, and communications problems of HR applications. Develops local policies/Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to implement changes or new programs to improve civilian personnel management operations. Troubleshoots system problems, including operation failures, provides emergency assistance, and administers system interpretation and guidance. Identifies and reports significant system problems to appropriate NGB personnel. Prepares and distributes instructions and information relative to operation of HR information systems.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected