Position Title
PROGRAM ANALYST
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
USBP-IMP-12759842-JRB Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 14, 2025 to Friday, July 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1.
Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from DHS?  If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under non-temporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
3. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
4. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
5. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
Assessment 1
The following question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-13 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes: Anticipating and identifying issues and their program implications, and recommending adjustments or corrective actions based on acquisition phase and learned best practices; Keeping management informed of inconsistencies in work processes and discusses, explains, and presents analytical findings and data in support of recommendations; Determining the applicability and effective of new or proposed legislation, executive orders, Department directives, and other organizational agency decisions on acquisition program requirements; Competing forecasting estimates, formulation, budget execution, financial reviews and reports, and directing the development of any changes to existing policies and directives.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
2. Select the option that best describes your experience evaluating the impact of legislation, executive orders, and agency policies.

 A. I have no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in evaluating the impact of legislation, executive orders, or agency policies.
 C. I have evaluated the impact of legislation, executive orders, and agency policies and have made recommendations to a supervisor or more senior individual on strategies for managing the impact.
 D. I have trained others to evaluate the impact of legislation, executive orders, and agency policies. I have recommended strategies for managing the impact of such changes that have been successfully implemented in my organization.
3. Select the option that best describes your experience utilizing integrated project teams to conducting projects or program activities.

 A. I have no experience performing this task.
 B. I have completed assigned project or program activities as a team member.
 C. I have assigned project or program activities to team members as a team lead, to include arranging for status updates, progress recording, progress reporting, and scheduling team meetings to ensure task completion.
 D. I have managed multiple projects or programs with competing priorities as a team lead. I have assigned activities to team members, tracked completion, conducted team meetings, and provided briefings regarding project status to leadership.
4. Indicate the extent to which you have gathered, technically reviewed, and analyzed facts to identify and propose resolution of problems.

 A. I have no experience performing this task.
 B. I have gathered data/information in preparation for analysis by others.
 C. I have gathered data/information, analyzed it, and summarized the results of my findings.
 D. I have gathered data/information, performed analyses, summarized results, and identified problem areas.
 E. I have gathered statistical data and narrative information, performed analyses, summarized results, identified problem areas, and proposed/implemented solutions.
5. Select the option that best describes your experience communicating, orally and in writing, with individuals at all levels of Federal and private sector organizations.

 A. I have no experience performing this task.
 B. I have prepared and delivered informal written communications for use within my own work group (e.g., email, informal discussions, etc.).
 C. I have prepared and delivered formal written and oral communications for individuals and teams within my own organization (e.g., technical reports, status updates).
 D. I have prepared and delivered formal written and oral communications for individuals across various levels within my organization (e.g. formal briefings, position papers).
 E. I have prepared and delivered formal written and oral communications that represented my organization to other organizations (e.g. conferences, testimony).
6. Select the choice which best describes your experience collaborating with all levels of your organization and individuals from outside organizations.

 A. I have no experience performing this task.
 B. I have communicated with other staff members and managers in the routine performance of my duties.
 C. I have conducted meetings with and provided training for staff members or outside groups.
 D. I have presented briefings on program areas to higher-level managers or internal/external organizations or agencies.
 E. I have represented a program or organization in high level conferences and/or meetings or acted as a liaison to other internal/external organizations or agencies.
7. Select the option that best describes your experience resolving project issues and changes in scope and resolution.

 A. I have no experience performing this task.
 B. I have experience identifying the impact of competing project demands within my organization or program.
 C. I have experience identifying and prioritizing competing project demands.
 D. I have experience developing and applying formal processes to identify, prioritize, and resolve competing project demands.
8. Select the option that best describes your experience tracking and controlling project progress, schedules and risk.

 A. I have no experience performing this task.
 B. I have entered project data and other information in spreadsheets and standard forms.
 C. I have tracked plans and activities for a project in an organization.
 D. I have overseen, reviewed, and approved budget requests and changes for projects, programs or offices in an organization.
9. Select the option that best describes your experience using software for project tracking, project scheduling, and risk management.
 A. I have no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have training in software used for project tracking, project scheduling, and risk management, but I have not applied this training on the job.
 C. I have on-the-job experience using software for project tracking, project scheduling, and risk management.
10. Select the option that best describes your experience consulting and negotiating with others to find mutually acceptable resolutions to divisive work-related project problems.

 A. I have no experience performing this task.
 B. I have consulted and negotiated with others on an individual basis to resolve work-related project problems.
 C. I have consulted and negotiated with internal groups that have resolved work-related project problems.
 D. I have consulted and negotiated with both internal and external groups that have resolved divisive work-related project problems.
11. Select the option that best describes your experience performing analytical studies and data analysis in areas of work efficiency and effectiveness.

 A. I have no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have training in performing analytical studies and data analysis related to improving work efficiency and effectiveness, but I have not utilized this training in a work setting.
 C. I have experience assisting others in performing analytical studies and data analysis related to improving work efficiency and effectiveness.
 D. I have experience independently performing analytical studies and data analysis related to improving work efficiency and effectiveness.
12. Select the option that best describes your experience in improving the efficiency and quality of the work performed.

 A. I have no experience performing this task.
 B. I have evaluated and made specific changes that have improved my efficiency and the quality of my work.
 C. I have recommended specific changes that have improved my work unit's efficiency and the quality of its work.
 D. I have recommended changes that have been adopted by multiple work units and have improved their efficiency and the quality of their work.
13. Select the option that best describes your experience in applying analytical techniques to measure and estimate the impact of alternative decisions on projects or programs.

 A. I have no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have training or limited experience in performing this task, but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 C. I have experience performing this task across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 D. I have performed this task independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 E. I am considered an expert in carrying out this task. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.
14. Indicate the extent of your experience in building support for ideas and initiatives with key stakeholders inside and outside the organization.

 A. I have no experience performing this task.
 B. I have limited experience in building support for ideas and initiatives with key stakeholders inside and outside the organization.
 C. I have sought support for ideas and initiatives from key internal and external stakeholders with the result that these ideas/initiatives have been included in major recommendations made by others.
 D. I have analyzed the pros and cons of key ideas/initiatives and clearly explained these options to key internal and external stakeholders with the result that the ideas/initiatives were successfully implemented.
15. Select the option that best describes your experience developing performance measurements to evaluate the effectiveness of your work, work unit, or project operations.

 A. I have no experience performing this task.
 B. I have used existing performance measurements to determine the effectiveness of my work, work unit, or project operations.
 C. I have developed performance measurements that were used to evaluate the effectiveness of my work, work unit, or project operations.
 D. I have overseen the development of performance measurements that were used to evaluate the effectiveness of my work, work unit, or project operations, and I have monitored the use of these measures.
16. Indicate the extent of your experience in translating goals into action plans.

 A. I have no experience performing this task.
 B. I have participated in a local process/project to develop action items for an action plan that supported established goals for a specific program area.
 C. I have led a local process/project to develop action items for an action plan that supported established goals for a specific program area.
 D. I have led a process/project for the conversion of agency goals to an action plan for a primary organizational unit or equivalent.
 E. I have overseen the process/project for the conversion of agency goals to action plans. I have monitored these action plans, made appropriate adjustments, and measured goal accomplishment.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected