Position Title
Deputy FPF Officer
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OFO-IMP-12754309-ANP Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, June 30, 2025 to Friday, July 11, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1.
Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from DHS?  If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of GS-14?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Federal employees who competed for and currently hold, or have previously held, a permanent position of GS-14 (or equivalent) or higher, may be referred for selection without competition under our agency promotion procedures. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-11 position with promotion potential to the GS-13.  The progression is GS-11, GS-12, and GS-13.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-13.
Your current position is a GS-13. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-14 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-13.
Your current position is a GS-13. You previously held a GS-14 position on a permanent basis.  GS-14 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-14 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
3. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
4. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
5. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
6. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-14 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes developing and evaluating all evidence, facts, and circumstances relating to a particular case and makes determinations, decisions, and recommendations within requirements of the law and regulations; reviewing and finalizing claims for liquidated damages and penalty cases; preparing a synopsis of the case including alternatives and recommended solutions; evaluating work performance of subordinates; giving advice, counsel, or instruction to employees on both work and administrative matters; planning the work to be accomplished by your subordinates, setting and adjusting short-term priorities, and preparing schedules for completion of the work.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
7. All newly appointed, second level supervisors (managers) are required to complete the mandatory leadership training. The Office of Training and Development will schedule eligible supervisors (managers) to attend this training within the first 90 days of appointment. All newly appointed, second level supervisors shall attain the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to successfully perform their supervisory responsibilities by completing required leadership training in accordance with agency policy.

NOTE: This training may be waived if previously completed.

Do you acknowledge that you have read and understand the above requirement, including current or former second level supervisors who have previously completed the mandatory training and will not be required to retake the course?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. If selected for this position, you must successfully complete a multi-week training at a designated training facility as outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement. Failure to successfully complete the required training course(s) in accordance with the standards and policies of Customs and Border Protection will be grounds for removal from the position. Such failure will result in either reassignment to a former or different position, demotion, or separation by appropriate procedures.

If you have previously attended this training, the requirement may be waived. If you answer "no" to the training agreement acknowledgment question below, you will be removed from further consideration for this position.

Do you acknowledge the training requirement and agree to the terms outlined in the job opportunity announcement and above?
 A. Yes, I confirm that I understand and agree to the term as outlined in the job opportunity announcement and above.
 B. No, I do not agree to the training requirement terms and understand that I will be removed from further consideration for this position.
Assessment 1
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
1. Do you have experience adjudicating liquidated damage, penalty and seizure cases, and managing seized property?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Indicate the extent of your experience planning and organizing work for others.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have created schedules, goals, and guidelines for others based on project priorities.
 C. I have set short-term goals and priorities for others, taking into consideration their capabilities and the level of difficulty required.
 D. I have set short- and long-term goals, priorities, and coordinated activities and timelines for others to ensure that project goals and deadlines were met.
 E. I have set project requirements and short- and long-term priorities for others, developed strategies to achieve goals, and coordinated work requirements, resources, and personnel to ensure deadlines were met.
3. Indicate the extent of your experience making determinations, decisions, and recommendations within the requirements of laws and regulations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have made determinations within the requirements of laws and regulations and submitted my recommendations to my supervisor.
 C. I have reviewed determinations and recommendations from coworkers to ensure everything is within the requirements of laws and regulations before submitting to a supervisor.
 D. I have made determinations and decisions within the requirements of laws and regulations. I have made recommendations to senior leaders in my organization based on my determinations.
4. Indicate the extent of your experience expressing ideas verbally.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have answered questions from other employees about matters that are limited to a narrow range of routine topics.
 C. I have given presentations or briefing reports to a variety of individuals with a similar level of technical expertise and organizational knowledge.
 D. I have presented and explained findings and approaches, provided and justified related recommendations in an efficient and effective manner, and addressed a wide variety of individuals with various levels of technical expertise and organizational knowledge.
5. Indicate the extent of your experience in expressing facts and ideas in writing.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written short responses to routine requests for information.
 C. I have written portions of one or more reports, information papers, and other documents (technical and non-technical).
 D. I have independently composed written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, and other complete documents based on study findings and results of analyses.
 E. I have independently completed formal written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, and other complete documents based on study findings and results of analyses. I have successfully tailored written information to the technical knowledge of my audience.
6. Do you have experience ensuring all elements necessary for establishing a violation of law are present and supported with evidence?

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Indicate the extent of your experience evaluating projects or programs for effectiveness, efficiency, and compliance.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have evaluated established projects or programs based on predetermined guidelines to ensure effectiveness, efficiency, and compliance.
 C. I have evaluated established projects or programs and prepared recommendations to improve effectiveness, efficiency, and/or compliance.
 D. I have evaluated complex or novel projects or programs and developed new methods to improve effectiveness, efficiency, and compliance.
8. Indicate the extent of your experience making decisions on work problems.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have made decisions on my own work problems for projects I was assigned.
 C. I have made decisions on work problems brought to me by coworkers for projects we were assigned.
 D. I have served as a team lead or supervisor, making decisions on work problems brought to me by subordinates across different projects.
 E. I have served as a second-line supervisor, making decisions on work problems taking into account changing priorities and assignments across different work units.
9. Do you have experience receiving, examining, and evaluating petitions filed by individuals, attorneys, corporations, or other legal entities.

 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Indicate the extent of your experience eliminating or reducing bottlenecks or barriers to production, promoting team building, and improving business practices.

 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have worked with coworkers to eliminate or reduce bottlenecks or barriers to production and promote team building in our work unit.
 C. I have recommended methods to eliminate or reduce bottlenecks or barriers to production, team building ideas, and improvements to business practices to my supervisor.
 D. I have implemented methods that eliminated or reduced bottlenecks or barriers to production, promoted team building, and improved business practices in my organization.
11. Do you have experience approving selections for non-supervisory positions.

 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Indicate the extent of your ability to use judgment in interpreting and adapting guidelines to meet work requirements.

 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in interpreting and adapting guidelines to meet work requirements.
 C. I have independently interpreted and adapted guidelines to meet work requirements.
 D. I have been solely responsible for reviewing and approving the interpretations/adaptations of guidelines created by others to meet work requirements.
13. Indicate the extent of your experience providing broad and/or in-depth analysis and evaluation of facts, practices, and issues to enhance operational effectiveness, efficiency, and productivity.

 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have provided broad analysis and evaluation of facts to enhance operational effectiveness for a specific program.
 C. I have provided broad and in-depth analysis and evaluation of facts and practices to enhance operational effectiveness and efficiency within my work unit.
 D. I have provided broad and in-depth analysis and evaluation of facts, practices, and issues to enhance operational effectiveness, efficiency, and productivity within several program offices.
 E. I have provided broad and in-depth analysis and evaluation of facts, practices, and issues that were not always clearly related to enhance operational effectiveness, efficiency, and productivity within my organization.
14. Indicate the extent of your experience evaluating facts and evidence to provide recommendations.

 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have gathered information related to a problem and formulated recommendations for my team lead.
 C. I have conducted in-depth research and analysis to gather information from relevant sources to formulate recommendations for my supervisor.
 D. I have gathered information from my own research and analysis and analyzed recommendations from others to provide the best options for senior leaders.
15. Indicate the extent to which you have developed and maintained effective relationships (liaison) with individuals internal and external to your work group, office, and organization.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have maintained relationships with individuals in my work group or office, primarily in the completion of my regular job duties or in my response to specific inquiries.
 C. I have maintained relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group and office to exchange information, resolve problems, or participate in teams.
 D. I have developed and maintained extensive relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group, office, and organization to resolve problems, plan team projects, and establish long-term working relationships.
 E. I have developed and maintained extensive relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group, office, and organization. I have repaired relationships with individuals and groups when needed.
16. Indicate the extent of your experience providing advice, counsel, or guidance to employees.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have provided advice, counsel, or guidance to employees on work administrative matters.
 C. I have provided advice, counsel, or guidance to employees on their work, their career path, and other work-related issues.
 D. I have maintained relationships with my employees and provided advice, counsel, or guidance on administrative and work-related matters.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected