Position Title
Supervisory Technical Security Investigator (Branch Chief)
Agency
U.S. Secret Service
Announcement Number
TLE-TEC-JJ031-25-INT Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, July 18, 2025 to Wednesday, July 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.
 
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the United States Secret Service and meet the ALL of the following? 
Located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; and
Applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice.
SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), that reflects all of the following:
Position, grade level (GS-15 or below), and duty location; and
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is "1" or "2" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34), or excepted service without time limit (Position Occupied is "2" in block 34) who is covered by a law providing both noncompetitive appointment eligibility to, and selection priority for, competitive service positions.
Any documentation from agency that shows current promotion potential; and
Latest performance appraisal including rating.
For more information, review Career Transition (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current United States Secret Service employee in the competitive service?

To verify eligibility, as a CURRENT Secret Service Employee you must submit your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following (you may need to submit more than one SF-50 to comply):
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is 1 or 2 in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34); and
Highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent SF-50); and
Time-in-grade eligibility.
Please note: Examples of appropriate Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, include promotions and with-in grade/range increases. While a General Adjustment and/or Award SF-50 may be your most recent SF-50 it typically DOES NOT show proof of Time in Grade. Thus, you may need to submit more than one SF-50 as proof of Time in Grade.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Landover, MD
2. Please select the Division(s) you would like to be considered - you may select one or both.
 A. Aviation and Airspace Security Division (ASD)
 B. Operational Communications & Integration (OCI) Division
Conditions of Employement
All applicants must complete the following section. This section will be used to determine your ability and willingness to accept certain conditions of employment or meet certain requirements of the position. Please respond 'Yes' or 'No' to the following statements. Failure to respond to this section will result in an ineligible rating.
1. Are you a United States Citizen?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you at least 21 years of age?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. 37 Years of Age
 A. I am 37 years of age or older and have NO current/former service in a Federal Law Enforcement position covered by special law enforcement or Firefighter retirement provision, including early or mandatory retirement.
 B. I am 37 years of age or older; however, I DO have current/former service in a Federal Law Enforcement position covered by special law enforcement or Firefighter retirement provision, including early or mandatory retirement.
 C. I am a Veteran who is 37 years of age, but less than 40 years of age, with NO current/former service in a Federal Law Enforcement position covered by special law enforcement or Firefighter retirement provision, including early or mandatory retirement.
 D. I am under the age of 37.
4. Please select the statement that best represents your Selective Service status.
 A. I am a male born after 12/31/59 and I certify I registered with the Selective Service.
 B. I am a male born after 12/31/59 and have a documented exemption from registering with the Selective Service.
 C. I am a female and not required to register with the Selective Service.
 D. I am a male born on or before 12/31/59 and am not required to register with the Selective Service.
 E. I am a male born after 12/31/59 and have not registered or do not have a documented exemption from registering with the Selective Service.
5. I am legally able to possess a firearm. Answer "Yes" if you would be legally able to obtain a permet to possess a firearm, even if you do not currently have a permit.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Have you been convicted in a court of the misdemeanor crime of domestic violence?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Do you possess or are you in the process of obtaining a valid U.S. state driver's license?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. An applicant must have corrected or uncorrected 20/20 or better vision in each eye at the time of application. This can be achieved in one of three ways: (1) naturally without correction; (2) with glasses or contacts; or (3) with eye surgery such as Lasik, PRK, ALK, or RK. Do you currently have corrected or uncorrected 20/20 or better vision in each eye?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. As measured by an audiometer, an applicant must have no hearing loss beyond 25 decibels at the 500, 1000, or 2000Hz ranges in both ears. Applicants must meet this requirement without the use of a hearing aid. Do you meet this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. I understand that if selected for the position, I will be required to maintain physical fitness throughout my career. If selected for the position, I would be willing to meet this requirement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. If I receive a conditional offer of employment, I am willing to undergo a polygraph examination.
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. I certify that I am willing to undergo a complete medical examination as part of the hiring process.
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. If I receive a conditional offer of employment, I am willing to undergo a pre-employment drug screening and random drug screening throughout my employment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
14. If I obtain a conditional offer of employment, I understand that I must undergo a comprehensive background investigation to determine my eligibility for a Top Secret security clearance.
 A. Yes
 B. No
15. If selected for this position, I understand I must sign a mobility agreement stating willingness to accept assignments anywhere within the United States and overseas.
 A. Yes
 B. No
16. I understand if I am selected for this position, I must successfully complete (or secure an appropriate waiver) for the intensive training Uniformed Police Training Program (UPTP) at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) in Glynco, GA or Artesia, NM, a Mixed Basic Training Course (MBTC) at the James T. Rowley (RTC) in Laurel, MD, and a Protective Advance Coordinator Course (PACC) in the Washington, DC metropolitan area.
 Radio Buttons - Yes/No
 A. Yes
 B. No
Vacancy Questionnaire
1. Are you a current U.S. Secret Service employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Where do you currently work?
3. Periodically the U.S. Secret Service will send application updates through email, as well as through SMS (texting) to those who consent. Do you consent to receiving SMS texting to the mobile number you provided for updates to your application?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Supervisory Technical Security Investigator with the US Secret Service.  Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documentation.  Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1. Select the one statement below that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Supervisory Technical Security Investigator at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level performing duties such as planning, and directing a technical staff and work involving at least one of the following areas: physical security, intrusion detection, access control, video assessment,  surveillance systems, technical surveillance countermeasures, chemical, biological and radiological hazard countermeasures, fire protection, network security, cyber security; or providing technical guidance for investigative and surveillance purposes OR providing/developing training programs related to any of the above specific subject matter areas.
 B. My experience is not reflected in the above statement.
2. From the list below, select the statement(s) that describe your experience as it relates to the knowledge of technical security concepts, policies, and principles.
 A. Served as a subject matter expert for large scale protective activities
 B. Provided solutions related to technical security
 C. Developed technical investigative programs
 D. Implemented specialized security programs for protective advances and activities
 E. Developed logistical plans of protective sites
 F. None of the above
3. From the list below, select the statement(s) that describe your experience as it relates to knowledge of program initiatives.
 A. Evaluated Programs
 B. Served as a project manager for a recognized large-scale program overseeing the scheduling, budgeting, and manpower
 C. Recommended changes or corrective actions
 D. Presented technological advances and methods designed to intensify program initiatives
 E. Implemented response protocols for criminal investigations and critical security incidents
 F. Participated in training to test program initiatives and responses
 G. None of the above
4. From the list below, select the statement(s) that describe your experience in acting as the lead for change in the development of new policy or program which is now in force.
 A. Identified issues and provided suggestions
 B. Developed the solutions and approaches to improve an existing policy or program
 C. Implemented a new policy or program which has been adopted
 D. Trained others on the use of this new policy or program
 E. Presented a detailed description of this new policy or program in a briefing
 F. None of the above
5. From the list below, select all the following which describe your experience in program management.
 A. Project Selection
 B. Project Initiation
 C. Project Definition
 D. Project Planning
 E. Risk Management
 F. Resource Selection
 G. Resource Management
 H. Budgeting
 I. Project Communication
 J. Conflict Resolution
 K. Issues Tracking
 L. Status Tracking
 M. Project Performance Evaluation
 N. None of the above
6. From the list below, select the statement(s) that describe your experience in performing protective advance missions.
 A. Qualified as Lead Advance
 B. Performed the Lead Advance role for a foreign visit by either the President or Vice President
 C. Performed as the Site Lead for a National Special Security Event (NSSE)
 D. Performed the role of Logistics, or Assist, or Subcommittee Chair during a National Special Security Event (NSSE)
 E. Performed the Overall Lead Advance role during a National Special Security Event (NSSE)
 F. None of the above
7. From the list below, select the statement(s) that describe your knowledge of techniques, tools, methods and procedures used to safeguard protectees and their environment from identified or anticipated threats.
 A. Planned, installed and or maintained a major project as a Lead Project Manager
 B. Acted as a Team leader for technical surveillance countermeasures for foreign visit
 C. Division pre-advance representative for OCONUS protective visits
 D. Acted as a Field Training Officer on a Technical Security Division Coordinator Developmental Milestone trip
 E. Participated in panel interviews for division applicants
 F. Conducted training for Technical Security Division and other Secret Service personnel with regard to specific or general Technical Security Division responsibilities
 G. Completed multiple Branch assignments to include field assignments
 H. None of the above
8. From the list below, select the statement(s) that describe your experience in conducting complex analyses of facts and circumstances.
 A. I have identified the issues involved
 B. I have developed the methods and approaches for gathering data
 C. I have developed the analytical techniques to review and process the data
 D. I have developed appropriate recommendations based on the analysis.
 E. I have implemented and followed through on the recommendations
 F. None of the above
9. From the list below, select the statement that best describes your experience performing a variety of supervisory or team lead/senior specialist functions.
 A. I have limited experience in supervisory personnel management
 B. I have assisted with manpower requirements for projects
 C. I have been designated as section lead within a branch, Acting Branch Chief in his/her absence, and created reports / documents which relate to staffing
 D. I have been designated as Backup within a Branch, and have routinely been selected as Acting Branch Chief, and assist in employment screening interviews
 E. None of the above
10. From the list below select all of the following which describe your management or leadership training.
 A. Emerging Leaders Seminar
 B. Introduction to Supervision
 C. Seminar for First Line Supervisors
 D. The No Fear Act
 E. A New Manager's Responsibilities and Fears
 F. Online Basics of Supervision
 G. Becoming a Manager: Leading and Communicating
 H. Interviewing Techniques
 I. Developing & Implementing an Outward Mindset
 J. Outward Leadership
 K. Crucial Conversations
 L. Managing Change
 M. Managing Performance
 N. Leadership courses provided at an accredited educational institution
 O. None of the above
11. From the list below select the supervisory functions you have performed.
 A. Developed and implemented performance plans
 B. Developed and implemented long-term project plans
 C. Developed strategic plans
 D. Resolved conflicts
 E. Prepared budgets
 F. Approved purchases
 G. Managed contracts or projects
 H. Conducted regularly scheduled meetings
 I. Interviewed prospective employees
 J. Wrote justifications for new positions
 K. None of the above
12. From the list below select the response that describe your experience in supervision and leadership.
 A. In my past work assignments, I have had direct supervisor authority
 B. In my past work assignments, I have been a team leader, articulating goals and outcomes and motivating others to achieve them
 C. In my past work assignments, I have worked to promote cooperation, coordination of work and process efficiencies
 D. In my past work assignments, I have developed methods for handling potential workflow problems arising from urgent or emergency situations
 E. None of the above
13. From the list below, select tasks you have performed as it relates to preparing for a protective detail, or supporting an investigative operation.
 A. Coordinated security requirements with internal and external law enforcement stakeholders
 B. Prepared physical security reports outlining deficient areas and recommended corrective actions
 C. Conducted briefings to internal staff, other government agencies, military and law enforcement organizations in preparation for protective details
 D. Provided direction to investigators or other law enforcement officials
 E. None of the above
14. From the list below select all of the statements that demonstrate the communication skills you have used as a regular part of your job.
 A. Answer external inquiries regarding the technical security process
 B. Participate in interviews with technical working groups
 C. Communicate strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities to peers
 D. Explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations
 E. Persuade others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take a particular course of action
 F. Present material at national, professional organization meetings
 G. Interview individuals to acquire specific information
 H. Conduct training sessions with varied audiences with different levels of comprehension
 I. Brief managers/executives outside of my employing organization
 J. Brief managers/executives within my employing organization
 K. Present material to community organizations
 L. None of the above
15. Select the statement that best describes your ability to maintain effective working relationships with personnel of varied backgrounds within the Service, other government agencies, military and law enforcement organizations for the purpose of exchanging information and coordinating work efforts.
 A. I have experience presenting information to others
 B. I have experience presenting information to others in briefings, conferences and committee meetings
 C. I have experience presenting information in a training format and providing subject matter expertise
 D. I have experience presenting information to others to gather and exchange information, resolve issues, negotiate changes and compliance and to explain policies, standards, and procedures
 E. I have experience presenting information to others to provide leadership and guidance in my field, to make program decisions and policy interpretations, and to persuade others to accept new approaches, concepts, and programs
 F. None of the above
16. Select the level that best describes your experience in presenting material to a variety of audiences.
 A. Give clear, logical and effective presentations or briefings before technical and non-technical audiences
 B. Conduct technical seminars, workshops, or other training activities to increase user knowledge and efficiency
 C. Conduct training for Technical Security Division personnel on specific or general Technical Security Division responsibilities
 D. Present in a clear, concise, and logical fashion at briefings, presentations, and conducted training, to Secret Service personnel and a variety of audiences with regard to specific or general Technical Security Division responsibilities
 E. None of the above
17. Select the statement that best describes the purpose for the communication duties you perform as a regular part of your job.
 A. To obtain, clarify, or give facts or information regardless of the nature of those facts
 B. To plan, coordinate, or advise on work efforts or to resolve operating problems by influencing or persuading individuals or groups
 C. To influence, persuade, or direct people or groups
 D. To justify, defend, negotiate, or settle matters involving significant issues and/or programs
 E. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
18. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, ALL of my responses to the assessment questions are true, accurate, complete, and that this application for employment with the United States Secret Service is made in good faith. I understand that a false statement on ANY part of this application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected