Position Title
Biomedical Engineer
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-12793343-25-TLH Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 5, 2025 to Monday, September 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Biomedical Engineer position with the Southern Nevada VAMC. Please answer each question. Leaving an answer unanswered to any of the questions below will result in an ineligible rating.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. I am a citizen of the United States. NOTE: Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens of the United States.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I am willing to undergo a pre-employment medical examination/physical, TB test, and other medical related requirements.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I am proficient in spoken and written English.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. GS-7 Qualifications: All applicants must have the following experience with at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower level. OR, Bachelor's degree in Biomedical Engineering, or a related field of study. OR, Bachelor's degree, Bachelor's degree or, CCE certification with at least a bachelor's degree.
 A. I possess one (1) year of progressively responsible assignments and experience equivalent to the GS-6 level which demonstrates knowledge, skills, and abilities that are directly related to the specific assignment and fully meets all of the performance requirements for the GS-7 Biomedical Engineer (Clinical)
 B. I do not possess the experience described above.
5. GS-9 Qualifications: All applicants must have the following experience with at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower level. OR, Master's degree in Biomedical Engineering, or a related field of study. OR, Bachelor's degree, plus two full years of progressively higher level graduate education in a related field of study, provided the applicant's total background demonstrates the KSAs for the GS-9  level assignment.

In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSA's:
Knowledge of the principles, theories, concepts, and practices of the Biomedical Engineering profession.
Ability to interpret relevant codes, regulations, guidelines, and standards, and make recommendations to ensure compliance with medical center programs.
Ability to understand the operational needs of clinical services in the health care system.
Ability to prepare material on current technical topics and trends, for presentation to other technical staff and mid-level hospital management, and the ability to keep abreast of changes in technology.
 A. I possess one (1) year of progressively responsible assignments and experience equivalent to the GS-7 level which demonstrates knowledge, skills, and abilities that are directly related to the specific assignment and fully meets all of the performance requirements for the GS-9 Supervisory Biomedical Engineer (Clinical)
 B. I do not possess the experience described above.
6. GS-11 Qualifications: All applicants must have the following experience with at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower level. OR, Ph.D., or equivalent doctoral degree in Biomedical Engineering, or a related field of engineering OR, Bachelor's degree, plus three full years of progressively higher level graduate education in a related field of study.

In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Knowledge of the principles, theories, concepts, and practices of the Biomedical Engineering profession.
Ability to interpret relevant codes, regulations, guidelines, and standards, and make recommendations to ensure compliance with medical center programs.
Ability to understand the operational needs of clinical services in the health care system.
Ability to prepare material on current technical topics and trends, for presentation to other technical staff and mid-level hospital management, and the ability to keep abreast of changes in technology.
 A. I possess one (1) year of progressively responsible assignments and experience equivalent to the GS-9 level which demonstrates knowledge, skills, and abilities that are directly related to the specific assignment and fully meets all of the performance requirements for the GS-9 Supervisory Biomedical Engineer (Clinical)
 B. I do not possess this experience.
7. GS-12 Qualifications: All applicants must have the following experience with at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower level.In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Ability to conduct a medical equipment management or biomedical research program that is compliant with applicable healthcare standards and regulatory agencies
Ability to develop a curriculum for a continuing education program, that address the safe and effective use of medical technology, and/or research devices.
Ability to manage a recall and safety alert program for medical devices, including medical device hazard investigations, to assure compliance with patient safety goals, SMDA, and TJC requirements.
Ability to conduct capital asset and infrastructure planning for medical equipment spanning initial concept, installation, and effective implementation of complex medical equipment.
Ability to function as the subject matter expert in the field of biomedical engineering, directly supporting specialized clinical technology, including service, system administration, training, quality assurance, and life-cycle management.
Ability to effectively advise clinical and administrative staff on medical technology, including existing and emerging technology, which addresses viability, long-term suitability, compatibility, and/or safety.
Knowledge of concepts related to computer based medical systems, networking protocols, and information security as it applies to medical technology within VHA.
Skill in communicating and working collaboratively with key stakeholders, including technical and professional staff at various levels of the organization.
Ability to apply project management principles to deployment of medical equipment and health information technologies.
 A. I possess one (1) year of progressively responsible assignments and experience equivalent to the GS-11 level which demonstrates knowledge, skills, and abilities that are directly related to the specific assignment and fully meets all of the performance requirements for the GS-9 Supervisory Biomedical Engineer (Clinical)
 B. I do not possess this experience.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
8. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title - Duties (Be as detailed as possible.) - Month & year start/end dates (e.g., June 2007 to April 2008) - Full-time or Part-Time status (include hours worked per week)

TRANSCRIPT REMINDER - Transcript(s) must be submitted if education is used to meet any requirement. Conferral of degrees earned should be present on transcript(s). Unofficial transcripts are accepted.

LICENSURE/CERTIFICATION REMINDER - You must submit a copy of your license/Certification listed with your application.

SF-50 REMINDER - Notification of Personnel Action (For Transfer/Reinstatement/Current/Former Federal employees) must submit a copy of your latest/last SF-50B (showing position, grade, step and tenure).

VETERAN'S DOCUMENTS REMINDER - In order to receive appropriate preference consideration, you must submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for veteran's preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran's Preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).

OTHER DOCUMENTS REMINDER (Applicants are not required, but highly encouraged to submit the following document): VA Form 10-2850c - Application for Associated Health Occupations / OF-306 - Declaration of Federal Employment. This form will be used to determine your acceptability for Federal employment.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected