Position Title
Animal Health Technician
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OTD-DE-12757754-JPH Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 7, 2025 to Friday, July 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who meets one of the following criteria:
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) Eligible:  You have received notice that you will be displaced from the DHS, or
Displaced DHS employee with a confirmed Reemployment Priority List (RPL) registration: 
You have received notice that you will be displaced from the DHS, or
You have been separated by a reduction in force (RIF) from DHS within the last two years, or
You are fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year from date of separation from DHS due to a Workers Compensation Claim? 
 If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This question applies to current DHS employees. If you are not a current DHS employee, select No.  If you claim only this eligibility, and you are not a current DHS employee, you will not receive further consideration for this position.   

Are you a current Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who is currently employed with DHS in a permanent competitive service position? DHS includes the following agencies: CBP, ICE, FEMA, FLETC, USCIS, USCG, USSS, etc.). Please visit http://dhsconnect.dhs.gov for a comprehensive list of all DHS agencies. 

Note: To verify your eligibility as a current DHS employee you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting: Tenure: Career or career-conditional (1 or 2) and Position Occupied: Competitive service (1).

If you do not meet any of the categories above, you must answer no to this question.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency? If yes, confirm:
You occupy (or have been separated from) a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you receiving a civilian retirement annuity from OPM based on retiring from the Federal government? If you select yes and you are selected for this position, your salary will be off-set by the amount of your civilian retirement annuity.

To verify, you must submit a copy of your retirement SF-50 with your application package. It is also recommended to submit a copy of your most recent annuity statement.

Note, this does not apply to military retirement and annuity pay.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by CBP. Individuals are required to have physically resided in the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law) for at least three of the last five years, before completing an application for CBP employment.

If you do not meet the residency requirement as stated above and you have been physically located in a foreign location for more than two of the last five years, you may request an exception to determine if you are eligible for a residency wavier by meeting one or more of the following conditions:
Working for the U.S. Government as a federal civilian or as a member of the military
A dependent who was authorized to accompany a federal civilian or member of the military who was working for the U.S. government
Participation in a study abroad program sponsored by a U.S. affiliated college or university
Working as a contractor, intern, consultant or volunteer supporting the U.S. government

Exceptions may be granted to applicants if they can provide complete state-side coverage information required to make a suitability determination. Examples of state-side coverage information include: the state-side address of the company headquarters where the applicant's personnel file is located, the state-side address of the Professor in charge of the applicant's "Study Abroad" program, and/or the state-side addresses of anyone who worked or studied with the applicant while overseas. If selected for a position, you must provide documentation to support a request for an exception.

Do you meet the residency requirement?
 A. Yes, for at least 3 of the last 5 years I physically resided within the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law).
 B. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am a current CBP employee.
 C. No, I do not meet this requirement and am therefore requesting an exception under one of the criteria listed above. I understand that if selected for this position, I will be required to provide supporting documentation for the period of time I have spent outside of the United States.
 D. No, I do not meet this requirement and am not requesting an exception. I understand that since I do not meet CBP’s residency requirement, I cannot be considered for a position with CBP at this time.
4. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
5. Are you a current or former Federal employee? If yes, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your SF-50(s) (Notification of Personnel Action) to support your experience. Also, ensure that your resume contains a detailed description of your federal work experience, including the dates you performed those duties, your hours worked per week, job title, as well as series, grade level(s), and salary (if applicable).
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. This position requires the ability to operate a Government Owned Vehicle. Do you have a valid, non-restricted driver's license or will you be able to obtain a valid, non-restricted driver's license before the time of appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. An Animal Health Technician (AHT) must be a certified/registered veterinary assistant under the standards of the Texas State Board of  Veterinary Medical Examiners and must adhere to the state's laws/regulations.

Are you a certified or registered Veterinary Assistant under the Texas State Board of Veterinary medical Examiners?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-09 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes preparing animals for surgery, performing such tasks as shaving surgical areas and placing IV catheters, intubates trachea and administers anesthesia in the proper dosage as directed by the veterinarian; assisting with the use of various veterinary laboratory equipment for examinations and administering medications and the ability to use microscopes, automated laboratory equipment and modern diagnostic procedures; providing advice and recommendations to medical staff/administrators on behavior and medical issues concerning various canine breeds; using various systems in tracking data for medical records, reports and charts; and ability to obtain radiographs of animals with knowledge of proper positioning and techniques.
 B. I have successfully completed two or more years of full-time graduate education or a Master's (or higher) degree from an accredited college or university in a field directly related to the position that demonstrates the skills necessary to do the work. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 C. I have a combination of successfully completed education and experience that is at least 100% as described in the Combining Experience and Education statement in the announcement posting. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 D. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
Assessment 1
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
1. Indicate your level of experience in implementing procedures for assuring the safety and health of animals in a veterinary facility.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task
 B. I have worked under the close guidance of others to implement procedures for assuring the safety and health of animals in a veterinary facility.
 C. I have worked with others to implement procedures for assuring the safety and health of animals in a veterinary facility and made recommendations for implementing these procedures.
 D. I have independently implemented procedures for assuring health of animals in a veterinary facility
2. Indicate the extent of your experience in maintaining logs or systems of records in a work environment (for example, health records, characteristics of breeding stock, correspondence, or other work-related documentation).

 A. I have had no experience in maintaining logs or systems of records.
 B. I have made entries into logs or records created and maintained by others
 C. I have developed systems for maintaining logs or records for use by others.
 D. I have developed and maintained logs or systems of records independently.
3. Select the choice that best describes your experience in evaluating the physical condition of injured animals and administering first aid (for example, dressing or suturing superficial wounds, or applying splints).

 A. I have no experience in performing this task.
 B. Under the close guidance of others, I have evaluated the physical condition of injured animals and administered basic first aid
 C. I have independently evaluated the physical condition of injured animals, administered first aid, and under the guidance of others, I have dressed and sutured superficial wounds.
 D. I have independently evaluated the physical condition of injured animals, administered emergency first aid, and attended to any injuries by suturing and dressing wounds, applying splints, or administering other appropriate treatments.
4. Indicate your level of experience in administering medications, vaccinations, serums, and other treatments as prescribed by a veterinarian.

 A. I have no training or experience in performing this task
 B. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures
 C. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee
 D. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise
5. Select the choice that best describes your knowledge of surgical techniques applicable to canines including the use of surgical instruments and equipment.

 A. I have no training or experience in performing this task
 B. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures
 C. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee
 D. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise
6. Select the option that best describes your knowledge of canine behavioral patterns and your use of this knowledge in resolving canine behavioral problems.

 A. I have no knowledge in this area.
 B. I have a basic knowledge of canine behavioral patterns (for example, I have read books and articles, or I have been trained in this subject matter).
 C. I have a working knowledge in this area, and I have independently identified canine behavioral problems and resolved them with the guidance of others.
 D. I have extensive knowledge in this area, and I have independently identified and resolved canine behavioral problems.
7. I have direct experience performing the following general Animal Health Management function (select all that apply):
 A. None of the above.
 B. Performs a general physical examination of animals to detect obvious abnormalities. This includes weight, temperature, pulse, respiratory rate.
 C. Operates x-ray equipment in conducting routine diagnostic radiographic procedures.
 D. Prepares and administers medications, vaccines, serums, and treatments, as prescribed by the veterinarian.
 E. Assists the veterinarian during examination, providing restraint as needed in order to work safely and effectively.
 F. Collects, prepares, and labels samples for laboratory testing, culture, or microscopic examination.
8. I have direct experience performing the following Animal Health Management functions for animals that have illness or injury (select all that apply):
 A. None of the above.
 B. Preparing animals for surgery. Ensure the proper sterilizations procedures are used.
 C. Prepares various surgical instruments and equipment for use and assists the veterinarian.
 D. Monitoring animal health through surgery including vital signs.
 E. Experience with recovery, including close observation of vital signs, hydration status, body temperatures, state of consciousness, and body weight.
 F. Administers post-operative analgesics according to established protocols and instructions.
9. I have presented training topics to employees, and key stakeholders within the organization.

 A. no
 B. yes
10. From the following list, please identify those items you have written (select all that apply):
 A. None of the above.
 B. Formal correspondence
 C. Email, memo, letters providing the status of animals health to other employees.
 D. Operating procedures, instructions, guidelines
 E. Laboratory test instructions/procedures
 F. Inspection or investigative reports.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected