Position Title
Agriculturist
Agency
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
Announcement Number
EX-12800534-25-IS Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 12, 2025 to Thursday, September 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Guatemala City, Guatemala
 B. Panama, Panama
2. Are you a retiree receiving a civilian Federal or FSA County Annuity?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Have you ever received a voluntary separation incentive payment (VSIP or buyout) to leave the Federal civilian service or FSA County position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former: Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a federal employee receiving a recruitment, relocation, retention and/or other incentive payment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Once a selection is made for this position, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with other hiring managers in the agency who have similar vacancies. Please opt in below if you're willing to have your name, application material, and assessment results shared to be considered for additional, similar positions. There is no guarantee for further consideration.
 A. Opt-in: Please share my name, application material, and assessment results with additional hiring managers within the agency for similar positions.
 B. Opt-out: I only want to be considered for positions associated with this specific application.
7. Are you proficient in both English and Spanish languages, including speaking and writing with correct diction and grammar?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Would you accept a term appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. This announcement is for a Limited Non-Career Appointment (LNA) with a not to exceed date of 3 years, with a possible extension up to 5 total years (similar to a Term Appointment in the Civil Service).  LNA appointments are in the excepted service and require assignment to overseas locations.  Are you willing to accept a limited appointment in the excepted service to the location listed in the announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Core Questions
1. Has your work schedule been full-time, i.e., 35-40 hours per week, for every position listed on your resume or OF-612?

If yes, please type Yes.
If no, please type No and include the following in your response for all positions held: position title, employer, dates employed (MM/DD/YY), work schedule (i.e., Full-Time (FT), Part-Time (PT), etc.), and hours/week. Please list in order with current/most recent position first.
Failure to provide all requested information may prevent us from giving credit for experience.
2. I understand for information on the status of my application and the outcome of the application process, I (the applicant) must inquire through USAJOBS. No separate notification will be sent to me. To view the status of my application and the outcome of the application process, I must go to the USAJOBS website and log into My Account. Once in My Account, I must enter the "Application Status" section of the website.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD 214, 50B, performance appraisal may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I understand that any correspondence necessary will be conducted via e-mail and sent to the e-mail address I provided in this application process. I must keep this e-mail address current.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. Basic Requirement - Choose the one answer that best describes your education and experience.

 A. I possess a bachelor's degree or higher with a major in a biological science, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position.
 B. I possess a combination of post high school education with courses equivalent to a major, which is defined as 24 semester/36 quarter hours, in the biological sciences, agriculture, natural resources management, chemistry or related disciplines appropriate to the position, PLUS appropriate experience or additional course work. The quality of the combination must demonstrate that you possess the knowledge, skills, and abilities required to perform the work of the position and is comparable to that normally acquired through the completion of a full four-year course of study with a major as described above.
 C. I do not meet either of the requirements described above.
2. GS-14 - In addition to the basic requirement, choose the one answer that best describes your experience.
 A. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service as described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
3. Experience and training in managing and leading the work of teams comprised of scientists, technical support staff, and/or administrative staff through the planning, execution, and evaluation phases of long-term projects.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
4. Experience in delivering quality work products that meet the organization's priorities, objectives, and deadlines.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
5. Developing protocols which have been adopted for use by a national animal disease detection/control program to assure uniformity in applying policies and conducting activities to detect and/or control animal diseases.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
6. Which of the following functions have you performed in response to emergency outbreaks of animal diseases?

 A. Initiated regulations
 B. Imposed trade restrictions
 C. Directed sanitation procedures
 D. Directed quarantine procedures
 E. Coordinated activities with federal agencies
 F. Coordinated activities with state/local governments
 G. Coordinated activities with foreign governments
 H. Developed communications systems/protocols to provide information concerning disease outbreak conditions and/or control status to concerned parties
 I. None of the above
7. Experience in developing networks, partnerships, and cooperative arrangements with the following in order to achieve program or organizational goals and objectives.

 A. Constituents
 B. Stakeholders
 C. Decision makers, e.g., higher level managers, union officials, representatives of other Federal agencies
 D. Industry groups
 E. Customer organizations
 F. Professional organizations
 G. Research organizations
 H. Colleges and Universities
 I. State and or local government agencies
 J. Foreign governments
 K. Elected officials or their staffs
 L. Other related outside organizations, groups, or representatives
 M. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
8. Have you been responsible for ensuring effectiveness of accountability controls in a major organization (e.g., management reviews, program evaluations, audits of financial statements)?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Based on my analyses of current year operating budgets I have identified requirements for:

 A. Reutilizing funds to meet unexpected needs
 B. Opportunities to satisfy unfunded priorities or requirements
 C. The imposition of strict spending controls to avoid budgets overruns
 D. Deferral of acquisitions or obligations pending the receipt of new appropriations, budget authority or funding
 E. None of the above
10. Which of the following best describes your experience developing and implementing systems to ensure measurement of program outcomes and report on results?
 A. Quantity
 B. Cost
 C. Timeliness
 D. Quality of products of services
 E. Results-oriented performance measures of your own innovation
 F. None of the above
11. I have direct experience and am proficient at writing with clarity, succinctness, persuasiveness, and facility for the intended audience when developing:

 A. Policies
 B. Issue Papers
 C. Program plans
 D. Correspondence dealing with difficult issues
 E. None of the above
12. From the following list of service improvement processes please identify those in which you have been an active participant:

 A. Collects information and feedback from customers and uses that information to imrpove products or services delivered to the public
 B. Engages employees and customers/stakeholders in efforts to develop and maintain standards; improve services, products, and processes
 C. Works across organization lines involving employees from other units, work groups, or jurisdictions, and customers to initiate projects to improve programs services and organizational performance
 D. None of the above
13. Select the response(s) that best describe your experience driving innovation.
 A. Seek out ways to do things better, faster, more efficiently, and at lower cost
 B. Search and share, best practices to improve everyone's performance
 C. Think creatively and come up with unique ways of approaching issues that take into account, and balance, business and budgetary constraints
 D. Not confined by the apparent boundaries and limitations of a situation
 E. Drive innovation by pushing team and self to seek new solutions
 F. None of the above
14. I have demonstrated organizational awareness by recognizing underlying problems, opportunities, and/or external political forces affecting an organization such as current trends, changes, and political realities

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
15. From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that reflect your experience and abilities.

 A. Facilitate the resolution of competing or conflicting interests among co-workers whose cooperation is essential to the success of a project
 B. Negotiate with and influence others in order to gain their commitment to pursue new initiatives or technologies
 C. Interact and perform effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables or work assignments
 D. Administer consequences, hold others accountable and enforce program policies and standards in the workplace
 E. Effectively persuade employees to adopt new methods, procedures or techniques in order to accomplish their work
 F. Work closely with managers to resolve problems, analyze alternatives, negotiate differences, or develop improvements
 G. Explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations
 H. Use persuasive techniques to obtain cooperation and agreement between parties for a mutually agreeable solution
 I. none of the above
16. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 B. No, I do not certify and I understand that by responding ?no? to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected