Position Title
BUDGET ANALYST
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
OH-12780512-AR-25-288-T5 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 8, 2025 to Friday, August 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
AREA OF CONSIDERATION
1. Are you a current on-board Title 5 Federal Employee within the Ohio National Guard?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.

Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you have experience, education, or training involving skills in applying problem solving techniques; and skills in communicating effectively both orally and in writing; ability to plan and organize work; competencies in analysis, research, writing, and judgment typically gained through college education or progressively responsible experiences; ability to follow established methods and procedures; use practical knowledge of the operations, procedures, and policies of specific program areas or functional assignment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you have 1-year specialized experience, education, or training equivalent to at least the next lower grade level; experience, education, or training of finance budget competencies that provided knowledge of financial principles and procedures; an excellent understanding of the basic principles and concepts of the National Guard financial budget business program requirements; experiences and training that demonstrates the abilities to follow directions, to read, retain, and understand a variety of instructions, regulations, policies, and procedures?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
3. Provides management oversight to the budget process, including planning, programming, budgeting, allocation and execution of funds. Reviews annual appropriation and authorization legislation to determine congressional intent. Reviews and interprets higher headquarters' orders, guidelines and directives, and policies and precedents to assess impact on State programs. Prepares budget requests consistent with guidance issued by NGB. Advises Program Managers (PMs) on the appropriate use of discretionary funds consistent with fiscal law.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
4. Prepares quarterly resource management reports, monthly analysis of financed orders in relation to forecasting expenses and provides narrative explanation of the causes of variances between actual and budget objectives. Develops supplemental guidance and instructions for operating officials on the preparation and submission of budget estimates and ensures a comparable level of funding to estimates and requests.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected