Position Title
Auditor (Field Office Coordinator)
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OT-IMP-12788774-KEG Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 3, 2025 to Wednesday, September 10, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Dallas, TX
 B. Houston, TX
2. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under non-temporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
4. This position requires the ability to operate a Government Owned Vehicle. Do you have a valid, non-restricted driver's license or will you be able to obtain a valid, non-restricted driver's license before the time of appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
6. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
7. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
8. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-13 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes; Providing input into the development of operational policies and procedures, audit guidelines and products, and overseeing the implementation, coordination, and evaluation thereof. Monitoring status of audit recommendations in accordance with Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular No. A-50 and Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards (GAGAS). Reviewing audit reports, memoranda and working papers and using knowledge of audit techniques and operations to verify the proper use of audit techniques. Conducting independent research on priorities issue with minimal guidance within established timeframe. Developing special reports or data reports explaining assessments conducted, collections, or other issues related to priority trade issues in response to Executive or congressional requests
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
9. The following question(s) will be used to determine whether or not you meet the Mandatory Basic Requirement for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following statements best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the basic requirement for the auditor position? I understand that I am required to submit proof of any educational claim.
 A. I have successfully completed a bachelor's (4-year) or higher degree in accounting or auditing (Conferred Transcript Required).
 B. I have a bachelor's (4-year) or higher degree including auditing courses in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law (Conferred Transcript Required).
 C. I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting OR equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training AND I have 24 semester hours in accounting/auditing, which can include up to 6 hours of business law (Transcript(s) Required).
 D. I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting/auditing OR equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training; AND I have a certificate as a Certified Public Accountant or Certified Internal Auditor obtained through written examination (Certification Required).
 E. I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting/auditing OR equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training; AND completion of the requirements for a 4-year bachelor’s degree (4-year) that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A, provided that (a) applicant successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants/auditors has determined that the applicant has demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in paragraph A; and (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, the applicant's education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements (Transcript(s) Required).
 F. I do not meet any of the above requirements.
10. If selected for this position, you must successfully complete a multi-week training at a designated training facility as outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement. Failure to successfully complete the required training course(s) in accordance with the standards and policies of Customs and Border Protection will be grounds for removal from the position. Such failure will result in either reassignment to a former or different position, demotion, or separation by appropriate procedures.

If you have previously attended this training, the requirement may be waived. If you answer "no" to the training agreement acknowledgment question below, you will be removed from further consideration for this position.

Do you acknowledge the training requirement and agree to the terms outlined in the job opportunity announcement and above?
 A. Yes, I confirm that I understand and agree to the term as outlined in the job opportunity announcement and above.
 B. No, I do not agree to the training requirement terms and understand that I will be removed from further consideration for this position.
Assessment 1
The following question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Select the option that best describes your experience reviewing audit documentation to assess the completeness and the proper application of policy and compliance with national standards.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. With guidance from a supervisor or other more senior individual, I have reviewed audit documentation to assess the completeness and the proper application of policies and compliance with national standards.
 C. I have independently reviewed audit documentation to assess the completeness and the proper application of policy, identified discrepancies, and recommended changes which would complete the audit or bring it into compliance with national standards.
 D. I have reviewed audit documentation to assess the completeness and the proper application of policy, and have approved final changes which ensured compliance with national standards.
 E. I have supervised subordinate staff members responsible for reviewing audit documentation to assess the completeness and the proper application of policy. I have been the person ultimately responsible for ensuring the audit's compliance with national standards.
2. Select the option that best describes your experience developing technical audit guidance and instructions to be used by field audit staff.

 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have researched best practices to develop technical audit guidance as part of a team.
 C. I have independently developed and implemented technical audit guidance based on research of best practices.
 D. I have independently developed and implemented technical audit guidance based on research of best practices. I have explained technical auditing concepts and trained others to apply this audit guidance.
3. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of risk-based targeting, auditing theory, concepts, and practices, as well as generally accepted auditing standards.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have basic knowledge of risk-based targeting, auditing theories, concepts, and practices, as well as generally accepted auditing standards, but I have not yet applied this in a work setting.
 C. I have working knowledge of risk-based targeting, auditing theories, concepts, and practices, as well as generally accepted auditing standards gained on the job.
 D. I have expert knowledge of risk-based targeting, auditing theories, concepts, and practices, as well as generally accepted auditing standards.
4. Select the option that best describes your experience developing and maintaining effective relationships with individuals to accomplish your work.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have maintained relationships with individuals in my work group or office, primarily in the completion of my regular job duties or in my response to specific inquiries.
 C. I have maintained relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group and office to exchange information, resolve problems, or participate in joint task forces/teams.
 D. I have developed and maintained extensive relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group, office, and organization to resolve problems, plan joint task force/team projects, and establish long-term working relationships.
 E. I have developed and maintained numerous long-term relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group, office, and organization to exchange information, resolve problems, and execute joint task force/team projects.
5. Select the option that best describes your experience managing projects (e.g., setting goals, identify issues, and prioritize projects).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have followed process timelines, goals, and guidelines prepared by my supervisor.
 C. Under the close guidance of others, I have developed project plans (for example, set timelines, established metrics, identified necessary resources).
 D. I have independently managed one or more projects that were limited in scope. I have had responsibility for setting timelines, establishing metrics, and identifying necessary resources.
 E. I have independently planned, implemented, and managed multiple projects that were broad in scope or were complex, involving multiple entities. I have had responsibility for ensuring that needed resources were provided, metrics were tracked, and goals were accomplished.
6. Select the option that best describes your experience promoting teamwork and cooperation.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have promoted teamwork and cooperation within a team in a Field Office.
 C. I have promoted teamwork and cooperation within multiple teams in a Field Office branch.
 D. I have promoted teamwork and cooperation across multiple Field Office branches.
7. Select the option that best describes your experience advising others on technical, procedural, or policy issues related to preparation for audits.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have answered routine questions from employees or supervisors on non-controversial matters or well-established policies, procedures, and regulations related to preparation for audits.
 C. I have advised employees, supervisors, and managers on moderately complex regulatory, technical, or procedural issues related to preparation for audits.
 D. I have advised management or other groups on complex or precedent-setting regulatory, technical, or procedural issues related to preparation for audits.
8. Do you have experience working with Regulatory Audit and Agency Advisory (RAAAS) management to develop solutions to identify problem areas.

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Select the choice which best describes your ability to identify strategies and implement improvement processes.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in identifying strategies and implementing programs which contribute to organizational development and improvement within my office.
 C. I have independently identified strategies and implemented programs which contribute to organizational development and improvement within my office/agency.
 D. I have independently identified strategies and implemented programs which contribute to organizational development and improvement across different agencies within the Federal Government.
10. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of audit techniques, laws, and regulations.

 A. I have no knowledge of audit techniques, laws, and regulations.
 B. I have received basic training in audit techniques, laws, and regulations but I have not yet applied this knowledge in a work setting.
 C. I have working knowledge of audit techniques, laws, and regulations, and have assisted in the analysis of current audit techniques utilized in my organization.
 D. I have extensive knowledge of audit techniques, laws, and regulations. I have overseen analyses of audit techniques utilized in my organization, and have been responsible for ensuring compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.
11. Select the choice which best describes your ability to research and assemble information.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have researched and assembled information in a training or education setting, but have not done so in a professional setting.
 C. I have researched basic information and concepts and have assembled the findings into a brief report or summary.
 D. I have researched complex information and concepts and have assembled the findings into a comprehensive report or literature review.
12. Select the choice which best describes your ability communicate effectively in writing.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written short responses to routine requests for information.
 C. I have written portions of reports, information papers, briefings, status reports, and other documents.
 D. I have independently written reports, information papers, briefings, status reports, and other documents related to auditing and other financial matters.
 E. I have independently written reports, information papers, briefings, status reports, and other documents related to auditing and other financial matters as well as independently prepared presentations and written arguments for a wide variety of key decision points (e.g., annual audit plan, collection and storage of data, adherence to Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards, etc.).
13. Select the choice which best describes your ability to effectively communicate orally.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have provided routine updates to my coworkers and supervisor regarding the status on various assignments and projects.
 C. I have provided comprehensive briefings to my supervisor regarding the outcomes of assignments and projects.
 D. I have provided comprehensive briefings to senior leadership regarding significant issues affecting the completion of mission critical work and / or the outcomes of assignments and projects.
 E. I have provided comprehensive briefings to senior leadership regarding significant issues affecting the completion of mission critical work and / or the outcomes of assignments and projects. I have also made formal presentations to stakeholders both internal and external to my organization.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected