Position Title
Program Manager (Deputy District Manager)
Agency
Food Safety and Inspection Service
Announcement Number
FSIS-25-MMP-12800936-BMF Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 16, 2025 to Monday, September 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. Your answers will be used to determine your eligibility to apply to this job opportunity announcement. You will be considered under the eligibility option(s) to which you answer YES. Select YES to all eligibility options for which you want to be considered. If you respond NO to meeting the criteria for all the eligibilities, you will not be considered for the position(s) under this announcement.

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration for EACH selected eligibility. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration.
1. Are you a current Food Safety and Inspection Service employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a Food Safety and Inspection Service employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment AND you have held or currently hold a position on a permanent basis in the competitive service with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. DOCUMENT UPLOADS - I understand that each document uploaded must be less than 5MB and in one of the following document formats: GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, PDF, TXT, or Word (.DOC or .DOCX). For more information see the "How to Apply" portion of the vacancy announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. 2-PAGE LIMIT ACKNOWLEDGEMENT - I understand that there is a 2-page limit on resume length for the initial qualification determination. If my resume is longer than two pages, only the first two pages will be reviewed to determine if I qualify.

For more information on what to include in your resume, see the "Required Documents" section of the vacancy announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. How did you learn about this FSIS position? Please select all that apply.
 A. LinkedIn
 B. Social Media (such as Facebook, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Job Finder Site (such as Indeed, Monster, etc.)
 D. Job Board from School, College, University, or Alumni Organization (e.g., Handshake, Symplicity, 12Twenty, Other)
 E. Local Billboard
 F. FSIS-Sponsored Job Fair, Career Fair, or Information Session/Event
 G. School-Sponsored Job Fair, Career Fair, or Information Session/Event Sponsored by a School, College, University, or Alumni Organization
 H. FSIS Employee
 I. USDA Employee
 J. Friend, Family Member, or non-FSIS or non-USDA Coworker
 K. USAJobs Search
 L. Other
6. Please share any additional details about how you learned about this position, especially if you selected "Other" in the previous question. If nothing to add, enter "N/A".
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. I have at least 52 weeks of specialized experience at the next lower grade level (or equivalent) as described in the vacancy announcement under the "qualifications" tab, and this experience is clearly described and outlined in my resume.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I have at least 52 weeks of time-in-grade (or equivalent) at the next lower level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Has your work schedule been full-time, i.e., 35-40 hours per week, for every position listed on your resume?
 A. Yes
 B. No (If no, please include the following in your resume for all positions held: position title, employer, dates employed (MM/DD/YY) and work schedule (i.e., Full-Time (FT), Part-Time (PT), etc., and hrs/wk). Please list in order with current/most recent position first. Failure to provide all requested information may prevent us from giving credit for experience.)
4. Select all that apply. Describe your experience implementing short or long-term goals and the strategies necessary to achieve them. I have:
 A. Provided direction to personnel to ensure that regulated activities are scientifically valid.
 B. Assisted in identifying the resource needs of my assigned area, to include funding, personnel, materials, and facility needs.
 C. Utilized financial and program reporting systems to leverage and prioritize resources.
 D. Interacted with subordinates and staff to clarify roles and responsibilities.
 E. Reviewed and verified that administrative enforcement actions are legally and technically supportable.
 F. None of the above.
5. Select all that apply. Describe your experience using methods that increase employee capabilities and productivity. I have:
 A. Set clear expectations as a leader to ensure subordinate staff meet FSIS goals and priorities for food safety, regulatory enforcement, and public health.
 B. Identified and sourced the items needed to meet the needs of the staff.
 C. Utilized financial and reporting system to leverage resources.
 D. Fostered continuous feedback and open dialogue when interacting with subordinate staff implementing changes and new procedures.
 E. Explained roles and responsibilities to staff to improve their understanding and increase independence and autonomy.
 F. Recommended changes to district managers that could help improve employee performance or productivity.
 G. Provided direction and guidance to personnel to ensure FSIS regulated activities are scientifically sound.
 H. Ensured that subordinate staff have the knowledge and understanding needed to validate that exported products adhere to following foreign regulations and requirements.
 I. Evaluated and reviewed the work of others to identify skill gaps or training needs.
 J. None of the above.
For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.
6. Choose a response that best describes your experience applying planning and evaluation skills to manage a full range of public health and consumer protection activities.
 A. I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 B. I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 C. I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 D. I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 E. I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.
7. Select all that apply. Describe your experience identifying problems and using sound judgement to implement solutions. I have:
 A. Identified and resolved day-to-day challenges when managing a full range of public health and consumer protection activities.
 B. Made recommendations on how to implement activities related to FSIS goals and priorities for food safety, regulatory enforcement, and public health.
 C. Identified resource challenges related to funding, personnel, or materials and assisted in generating practical solutions.
 D. Helped formulate alternative ideas or made recommendations that impacted operational policies, procedures, or programs.
 E. Collaborated with subordinate managers, supervisors, or staff to resolve challenges implementing new programs or procedures.
 F. Provided subject matter expert knowledge to offer solutions to my district manager when implementing changes.
 G. Followed up to resolve outstanding challenges related to corrective actions and ensured plans for resolution are properly executed.
 H. None of the above.
8. Select all that apply. Describe your experience making recommendations or providing guidance to address challenging or difficult problems. I have:
 A. Utilized financial and program reporting systems to identify funding or resource gaps and offered suggestions or solutions to fulfill resource needs.
 B. Provided guidance to field employees when ensuring compliance and conformity with foreign export regulations.
 C. Provided guidance to ensure that administrative enforcement actions are legally defendable.
 D. Interacted with a wide range of individuals to explain or clarify the importance of their role or responsibility in addressing problems.
 E. Provided directions and guidance to staff to ensure that regulated activities they are performing are scientifically valid.
 F. Observed and evaluated state inspection and enforcement activities and made recommendations to ensure that they are compliant with Federal requirements.
 G. Taken decisive and fast action to resolve challenges brought to me by subordinate supervisors or staff.
 H. Identified challenges or problems when observing the work of others and devised solutions to address.
 I. None of the above.
9. Select all that apply. Describe your experience ensuring that written communication expresses facts and information in a succinct and organized manner. I have:
 A. Provided clear, written instructions to personnel when managing the full range of inspection duties in my assigned area.
 B. Written succinct and organized communication to outline FSIS goals and priorities for food safety, regulatory enforcement, and public health.
 C. Coordinated with others to communicate my resource needs, providing details obtained from reporting systems to support my requests.
 D. Written recommendations and detailed plans to assist in the development of policies, procedures, and program goals.
 E. Responded to and provided written instructions to others to explain or solidify understanding of newly implemented procedures.
 F. Made recommendations to my leadership to help implement new programs or procedures, ensuring that my thoughts are organized and clearly expressed.
 G. Provided written technical guidance or instructions to ensure enforcement actions are legally supportable.
 H. Followed up and provided written instruction to staff to confirm corrective action plans are being implemented.
 I. Provided guidance and technical information related to export products, referencing and clarifying the regulations and standards of other foreign countries.
 J. Provided guidance and information related to state inspection activities to assure program standards meet regulatory requirements.
 K. None of the above.
10. Select all that apply. Describe your experience organizing the work of others, setting their priorities, and determining the resources needed to accomplish goals. I have:
 A. Implemented FSIS goals and priorities for food safety, regulatory enforcement, and public health.
 B. Formulated operational policies, procedures, and programs to reach long-range goals and address priorities.
 C. Offered suggestions for program or procedural improvements to key decision makers.
 D. Followed up on correction actions to verify plans were properly executed.
 E. Overseen state inspection and enforcement activities to assure program standards and requirements are maintained to an acceptable level.
 F. Made decisions and provided directions to subordinates on how to resolve situations or problems.
 G. Supervised and reviewed the work of subordinate staff to ensure that they have the resources necessary to be successful.
 H. Supervised and reviewed the work of subordinate staff who ensure products for export to foreign countries meet all necessary regulatory and foreign country requirements.
 I. None of the above.
For each technical area below, select the response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and demonstrated capability.
11. Select the response that best describes your leadership and supervisory skills managing a full range of public health and consumer protection activities.
 A. I have no knowledge or demonstrated capability in this technical area.
 B. I can demonstrate an understanding of the fundamental concepts involved in this technical area. I will require formal training and close supervision to perform this work.
 C. I can demonstrate an understanding of some advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of working on most projects in this technical area with moderate assistance. I am able to perform this work with minimal supervision.
 D. I can demonstrate an understanding of many advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of mentoring others on some projects in this technical area. I am able to perform this work without supervision except in the most complex situations.
 E. I can demonstrate an understanding of most advanced concepts within this technical area. I am considered an expert in the field and am frequently consulted by others about this technical area. I am responsible for mentoring and training others in this technical area.
For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.
12. Select the response that best describes your experience overseeing state inspection and enforcement activities, ensuring that your staff has the skills and knowledge to identify if program standards are sufficient.
 A. I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 B. I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 C. I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 D. I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 E. I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.
13. Select all that apply. Describe your experience ensuring that written feedback and guidance to personnel is concise, informative, and appropriate for the intended audience. I have:
 A. Fielded inquiries from various personnel (e.g. peers, supervisors, field employees, etc.) and provided direction and clarity surrounding their roles and responsibilities performing or guiding the performance of inspection activities.
 B. Explained technical jargon in plain language to field personnel ensuring that regulatory activities are performed appropriately and with scientific validity.
 C. Responded to challenges or problems experienced in the field by subordinate staff, providing clear and concise directions for resolution.
 D. Reviewed the work of others and provided feedback and suggestions for improvement.
 E. None of the above.
14. Select all that apply. Describe your experience planning, scheduling, assigning and reviewing the work of others. I have:
 A. Considered the experience and skills of staff when formulating operational policies, procedures, or programs.
 B. Assigned and reviewed the work of others, ensuring that enforcement activities are legally and technically supportable.
 C. Reviewed corrective actions issued by others and verified that plans were followed and executed.
 D. Made assignment or scheduling decisions to resolve work problems presented by subordinate staff.
 E. None of the above.
15. Select all that apply. Describe your experience ensuring that you provide clear and convincing oral presentations, listen to others, and attend to nonverbal cues while responding appropriately to an individual or group. I have:
 A. Presented decisions on work problems to subordinate staff or management.
 B. Discussed resource needs such as funding, personnel, materials and facilities with stakeholders and decision makers.
 C. Discussed challenges or problems experienced in the field by subordinate staff, providing directions for resolution.
 D. Presented/Briefed public health and consumer protection topics.
 E. None of the above.
16. Select the response that best describes your experience utilizing knowledge of your organization's mission and functions to accomplish tasks and duties. I have:
 A. Managed public health and consumer protection activities.
 B. Implemented FSIS goals and priorities for food safety, regulatory enforcement, and public health.
 C. Assisted in determining resource needs such as funding, personnel, materials, and facilities.
 D. Utilized financial and program reporting systems to leverage and prioritize resource allocation decisions.
 E. Formulated operational policies, procedures, and programs including long-range goals and priorities for program activities.
 F. Provided directions to district personnel to ensure FSIS-regulated activities are scientifically valid.
 G. Ensured that products for export to foreign countries conform to regulatory and foreign country requirements.
 H. None of the above
17. Select all that apply. Describe your experience managing a workforce to accomplish organizational goals. I have:
 A. Recruited and assigned staff to perform a variety of public health and consumer inspection activities.
 B. Implemented FSIS goals and priorities, considering budget and resources available.
 C. Provided feedback and information to assist leaders making funding, personnel, materials, or facility resource decisions.
 D. Utilized reporting systems to leverage and prioritize resource allocation decisions.
 E. Taken action to address performance problems when employees are not meeting clearly defined role and responsibility expectations.
 F. Advised my District Manager on how we could use the resources available to implement new programs or procedures.
 G. Ensured that personnel have the resources needed to complete regulated activities with scientific validity.
 H. None of the above.
For each knowledge area, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of knowledge using the scale below.
18. Select the response that best describes your experience assessing the resources available (e.g. staff, funds, materials, etc.) and formulating operational policies, procedures, and programs to meet the goals and objectives of the Agency.
 A. I have no knowledge of this area.
 B. I have the knowledge to teach at the high school level or train novices about issues in this area.
 C. I have the knowledge to teach at the college undergraduate level or to train entry-level professionals about issues in this area.
 D. I have the knowledge to teach at the graduate level or to train professionals in this area.
 E. I have the knowledge to write a textbook for graduate or undergraduate study in this area or to develop industry-wide guidance or policy in this area.
19. Select all that apply. Describe your experience utilizing your knowledge and understanding of the organization's programs, policies, procedures, rules, and regulations to accomplish tasks. I have:
 A. Interacted with managers, supervisors and staff to explain changes or new procedures.
 B. Offered suggestions to the district for effective implementation of new programs and/or procedures.
 C. Provided directions to districts to ensure FSIS-regulated activities are scientifically valid.
 D. Ensured administrative enforcement actions are legally and technically supportable.
 E. Followed up on corrective actions and verified plans are properly executed.
 F. Overseen state inspection and enforcement activities to assure program standards and requirements are maintained and at least equal to Federal requirements.
 G. Made decisions on work problems presented by subordinate staff.
 H. Reviewed the work of subordinate staff.
 I. Interacted with subordinate staff to clarify roles and responsibilities.
 J. None of the above
20. Select all that apply. Describe your experience ensuring that employees are appropriately recruited, selected, appraised, and rewarded so that they can accomplish the goals and mission of the agency. I have:
 A. Supervised and reviewed the work of subordinates to complete performance appraisals.
 B. Rewarded subordinate staff for recognizing and elevating problems in the field and offering solutions so that I could make informed decisions leading to resolution.
 C. Selected employees with the skills and competencies necessary to develop and communicate corrective action plans and ensure that plans are properly executed.
 D. Supervised and reviewed the work of subordinates who are responsible for performing oversight of state inspection and enforcement activities, recognizing if the minimum standards and regulatory requirements are being met.
 E. Evaluated subordinate staff on their ability to effectively communicate technical and legally supportable administrative enforcement actions.
 F. Evaluated the work and competence of staff who are responsible for interpreting and applying foreign export regulations.
 G. Interacted with staff to provide feedback on how well they are adapting to change and implementing new procedures.
 H. None of the above.
21. Select all that apply. Describe your experience orally communicating to various audiences, expressing facts and information that is technical, sensitive, or controversial. I have:
 A. Provided clear, oral instructions to personnel when managing the full range of public health and consumer protection activities.
 B. Orally presented FSIS goals and priorities for food safety, regulatory enforcement, and public health.
 C. Communicated resource needs, providing details obtained from reporting systems to leverage resource allocations.
 D. Presented detailed plans to assist in the development of policies, procedures, and program long-range goals and priorities.
 E. Provided instructions to managers, supervisors and staff to explain or solidify understanding of newly implemented procedures.
 F. Provided recommendations to leadership to help implement new programs or procedures, ensuring ideas are organized and clearly expressed.
 G. Provided direction or instructions to ensure enforcement actions are legally supportable.
 H. Followed up and provided instruction to staff to confirm corrective action plans are being properly implemented.
 I. Provided guidance and technical information related to export products, referencing and clarifying the regulations and standards of other foreign countries.
 J. None of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected