Position Title
Welder
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
20241031-59804-009522-ZD-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 8, 2025 to Wednesday, September 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: YOUR RESPONSES TO THE FOLLOWING QUESTIONS MUST BE SUPPORTED IN YOUR RESUME. FAILURE TO SUPPORT YOUR ANSWER(S) IN YOUR RESUME MAY IMPACT YOU OR ELIMINATE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION.

1. Which marine structures have you fabricated or repaired with welding techniques?
 A. Radar pockets
 B. Battery pockets
 C. None of the above.
2.

Which response best describes your experience reviewing completed welds for defects (e.g., cracks, slag) to ensure compliance with specifications and trade practices? 

 A. I have completed education or training in how to perform this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 B. I have assisted with or performed this task at the apprentice level, under close supervision.
 C. I have performed this task under normal supervision.
 D. I am consulted by other journeyman in difficult situations or am called to perform unusually difficult jobs related to this topic.
 E. None of the above.
3. Which response best describes your experience reading technical drawings to ensure that planned piping and fixtures do not interfere with other systems (i.e. electrical, mechanical)?
 A. I have completed education or training in how to perform this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 B. I have assisted with or performed this task at the apprentice level, under close supervision.
 C. I have performed this task under normal supervision.
 D. I am consulted by other journeyman in difficult situations or am called to perform unusually difficult jobs related to this topic.
 E. None of the above
4. Which welding equipment/tools have you used?
 A. Electric and engine driven welding machines
 B. Oxyacetylene cutting and brazing torches
 C. Plasma Cutting Machines
 D. Power Feed Drill Presses
 E. Manual Feed Drill Presses
 F. Shear and Punch Presses
 G. Power Presses
 H. Bending and Forming Machines
 I. Gas Torches
 J. Grinders
 K. Horizontal band saw
 L. Metal Inert Gas (MIG) Welding Units
 M. Tungsten Inert Gas (TIG) Welding Units
 N. None of the above
5. Which equipment have you connected to tanks and adjusting for pressure to perform work.
 A. Hoses
 B. Regulators
 C. None of the above
6. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience using automatic test/measuring equipment in a variety of trades?
 A. I have completed education or training in how to perform this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 B. I have assisted with or performed this task at the apprentice level, under close supervision.
 C. I have performed this task under normal supervision.
 D. I am consulted by other journeyman in difficult situations or am called to perform unusually difficult jobs related to this topic.
 E. None of the above
7. Which instructions or technical drawings have you interpreted to perform welding tasks?
 A. Written instructions
 B. Drawings/sketches
 C. Blueprints/schematics
 D. Shop specifications/practices
 E. None of the above
8. Which response best describes your experience determining the proper type and amount of metal for welding tasks?
 A. I have completed education or training in how to perform this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 B. I have assisted with or performed this task at the apprentice level, under close supervision.
 C. I have performed this task, under normal supervision.
 D. I am consulted by other journeyman in difficult situations or am called on to perform unusually difficult jobs related to this topic.
 E. None of the above.
9. Which response best describes your experience making welds to meet accepted trade standards and specifications?
 A. I have completed education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 B. I have assisted with or performed this task at the apprentice level, under close supervision.
 C. I have performed this task under normal supervision.
 D. I am consulted by other journeyman in difficult situations or am called on the perform unusually difficult job related to this topic.
 E. None of the above
10. Which metals and alloys do you have experience cutting?
 A. Aluminum
 B. Stainless Steel
 C. Steel
 D. Monel
 E. Cast Iron
 F. Copper
 G. Nickel
 H. Bronze
 I. None of the above
11. Which response best describes your experience adhering to safety precautions to guard against injury?
 A. I have completed education or training in how to perform these tasks, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 B. I have assisted with or performed these tasks at the apprentice level, under close supervision.
 C. I have performed these tasks, under normal supervision.
 D. I am consulted by other journeymen in difficult situations, or am called on to perform unusually difficult jobs related to this topic.
 E. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
12. Have you welded parts or equipment that required you to work in awkward positions?
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Which tasks have you performed with welding and metal cutting machines?
 A. Equipment set up
 B. Equipment operation
 C. Equipment maintenance
 D. None of the above
14.

Which welding practices have you used? 

 

 A. SMAW
 B. FCAW
 C. GTAW
 D. GMAW
 E. SAW
 F. None of the above
15. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, that my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731), or I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), I understand that any information I give may be investigated.
 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected