Position Title
TITLE 32 SUPERVISORY ITSPEC (SYSADMIN) (MI JFHQ G6)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MI-12702921-AR-25-037 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 10, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. US Citizens.  Are you a US Citizen?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. All on-board federal employees/technicians within the Michigan National Guard for which you are applying (Title 32 and Title 5, AND Permanent). Are you a current on-board federal employee or technician with the Michigan National Guard for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1 or 2).
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Is your current military rank E8 - O4?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, I am not a current military member.
 D. No, my current military rank is higher than the maximum allowed, but I have uploaded a signed statement that I am willing to take a reduction in military rank.
Assessment 1
Resume Reminder- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.

Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Does your resume support the General Experience criteria below?

Experience that provided a basic knowledge of data processing functions and general management principles that enabled the applicant to understand the stages required to automate a work process. Experience may have been gained in work such as computer operator or assistant, computer sales representative, program analyst, or other positions that required the use or adaptation of computer programs and systems.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Does your resume support 12 months of Specialized Experience criteria below?

experience, education, or training that approaches techniques and requirements appropriate to an assigned computer applications area or computer specialty area in an organization. Experience planning the sequence of actions necessary to accomplish the assignment where this entailed coordination with others outside the organizational unit and development of project controls. Experience that required adaptations of guidelines or precedents to meet the needs of the assignment. Experience preparing documentation on cost/benefit studies where is involved summarizing the material and organizing it in a logical fashion.

and

Experience in managing the function of the work to be performed. Experience which includes leading, directing and assigning work of personnel.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Please read and respond to all the questions below. For each Competency / Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSA's), choose the response below that best describes your experience and/or training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application and information your references provide.

Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
3. Knowledge of and skill in applying IT security principles, methods, and tools; and the IT security environment sufficient to participate in defining IT security requirements; and to implement and support IT security applications. The incumbent of this position would be performing these duties but would also exceed this level.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
4. Knowledge of and skill in applying methods for evaluating, implementing, and disseminating IT security tool and procedures; SCIF Infrastructure; COTS technology; IT security certification and accreditation requirements; network operations and protocols; and computer forensics principles. These are required to be able to develop, implement, and coordinating activities designed to ensure, protect, and restore IT systems, services, and capabilities; monitor an evaluate systems: compliance with IT security requirements; provide advice and guidance in implementing IT security policies and procedures in the development and operation of network systems; and ensure proper protection of evidence used in investigating computer crimes.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification using your resume. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected