Position Title
Water Treatment Plant Operator
Agency
U.S. Army Joint Munitions Command
Announcement Number
MCGL250531627111HD Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 10, 2025 to Wednesday, September 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Would you accept a term appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Resume Length Pilot Acknowledgment
1. The Job Opportunity Announcement (JOA) states that resumes should be limited to 5 pages. If more than 5 pages are submitted, only the first 5 pages will be reviewed to determine your eligibility/qualifications. (NOTE: You may select either response A or B to acknowledge; this question serves only as a reminder of the notice on the JOA).
 A. I understand that I may submit my resume in any format of my choosing, however, if my submitted resume is over 5 pages, only the first 5 pages will be reviewed to determine eligibility/qualifications.
 B. I acknowledge the statement in response ‘A’.
Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.
1. Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. The duties of this position require the incumbent to possess or obtain and maintain a valid state Driver's License in one of the 50 U.S. states or possessions to operate vehicles. Do you currently possess or are you willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid license to comply with the requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. This position requires shift work to provide coverage on evenings, weekends, holidays, or special situations. Employee shifts are rotated on a regularly scheduled basis. Are you willing and able to work on a rotating shift basis to meet work requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Must be Class C State certified as a Water Treatment Plant Operator. Are willing and able to provide proof of certification?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Must be Class C State certified as Sewage Disposal Plant Operator. Are you willing and able to provide proof of certification?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Must complete the introductory course in Hazardous Waste Management within six months of being assigned to this position and attend annual refresher training. Are you willing and able to meet this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Water Treatment Plant Operator position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1. From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Water Treatment Plant Operator duties without more than normal supervision.
 A. I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Water Treatment Plant Operator task. I am considered an expert in the operation and maintenance of water pumping and water treating equipment used in the process of purifying water for personal consumption and industrial purposes; manually regulate valves to control flow of raw water; energize and de-energize centrifugal and gasoline powered pumps to supply the demand for filtered water; collect and weigh water samples to ensure correct pH; operate and maintain feeders such as the Omega Dry Feeder; conduct residual sampling tests and inspect chlorinators; Use and weigh chemicals; maintain rapid sand filter beds; and conduct daily, routine, basic laboratory tests necessary for water treatment plant operation and work with a high degree of independence.
 B. I have the ability to perform the full range of Water Treatment Plant Operator duties. I am skilled in the operation and maintenance of water pumping and water treating equipment used in the process of purifying water for personal consumption and industrial purposes; manually regulate valves to control flow of raw water; energize and de-energize centrifugal and gasoline powered pumps to supply the demand for filtered water; collect and weigh water samples to ensure correct pH; operate and maintain feeders such as the Omega Dry Feeder; and conduct daily, routine, basic laboratory tests necessary for water treatment plant operation. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 C. I have the ability to perform common Water Treatment Plant Operator duties such as operate water pumping and water treating equipment used in the process of purifying water for personal consumption and industrial purposes; manually regulate valves to control flow of raw water from entities such as lakes through a water treatment plant; collect and weigh water samples to insure maintaining the correct pH in the dosed water. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 D. I have the ability to perform simple tasks of water pumping and using water treating equipment and regulating valves to control flow of water or I have received training on this type of work.
 E. I do not possess the abilities described above.
2. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected