Position Title
Contract Specialist, GS-1102-09 Direct Hire
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
20250422-193379-NE-KA-DHA-R Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 16, 2025 to Monday, July 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this GS-09 position at our agency. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1. From the descriptions below, select the one response which best describes whether or not you meet the Basic Requirement for this GS-09 position.
 A. I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with a major in any field. You must provide unofficial transcripts as verification that you meet this education requirement by the closing date of this announcement.
 B. I have completed at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. You must provide unofficial transcripts as verification that you meet this education requirement by the closing date of this announcement.
 C. I have a combination of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level in or related to the work of this position and graduate level education in one or a combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. You must provide unofficial transcripts as verification that you meet this education requirement by the closing date of this announcement.
 D. I have been employed as a Contract Specialist or Procurement Analyst, in the GS-1102 series, since at least January 1, 2000. If qualifying based on this option, you MUST provide an SF-50 that verifies you meet this criteria. SF-50 must be submitted with your application by the closing date of this announcement.
 E. My experience and/or education do not match the choices above.
From the description below, provide a short answer response, in the form of MM/YYYY, that describes additional information regarding your FAC-C Certification status, if applicable.

2. If you are a current workforce member certified at Levels I, II, or III of the Legacy FAC-C or FAC-C Professional (or equivalent), please provide the date of your most recent and active certification. NOTE: If you are currently certified, you MUST provide a copy of your certification with your application package.
2a. Response Date Format: MM/DD/YYYY
3. Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this GS-9 position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 A. I qualify for this GS-09 position, because my resume clearly demonstrates that I have one full year of minimum qualifying specialized experience comparable in difficulty and responsibility to at least the GS-07 level in the federal service. Examples of minimum qualifying specialized experience include performing the following types of tasks on a regular and recurring basis: reviewing contracting or procurement actions to determine that proper specifications/purchase descriptions are included in solicitation documents; and evaluating bids or proposals for compliance with specifications/purchase descriptions and applicable clauses.
 B. I qualify for this GS-09 position because I have completed 2 full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education or masters or an equivalent graduate degree or LL.B. or J.D. To qualify for GS-1102 positions on the basis of graduate education, graduate education in one or a combination of the following fields is required: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management.
 C. I have a combination of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level in or related to the work of this position and graduate level education in one or a combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position.
 D. My experience does not match the choice above.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.
4. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in the application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fired or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001) my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected