Position Title
Director - Strategic Policy
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
25-DO-12803626-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 19, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other
3. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
4. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
6. Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.
Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Specialized experience for the GS-15: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes demonstrated, working experience in ALL of the following:

-Identifying illicit finance threats to the U.S. and international financial system; AND
-Developing counter-illicit finance policy, including typologies and risk/threat assessments; AND
-Providing advice to leadership regarding counter-illicit finance policy; AND
-Experience with the international framework to combat money laundering, terrorism finance, and weapons of mass destruction (WMD) proliferation financing; AND
-Representing an organization within foreign governments, multilateral bodies, Congress, or other US Government departments or agencies; AND
-Managing projects and leading formal or informal teams and mentoring new or more junior staff.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you meet the specialized experience as stated in the vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Select the responsibilities you have performed while in a leadership-type role.
 A. Oversaw, directed or planned work to be accomplished by employees including setting priorities and preparing schedules for the completion of work and adjusted as needed.
 B. Assigned work to employees based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees.
 C. Gave advice, counsel or instruction to employees on program specific, technical, and/or administrative matters.
 D. Interviewed candidates and made recommendations to fill vacant position(s).
 E. Resolved conflicts through meetings or other formal or informal means.
 F. Found ways to improve production or increase the quality of the work directed.
 G. Identified developmental and training needs of employees and provided, or arranged for, needed development and training.
 H. Have been designated as a team leader, assisting the immediate supervisor with assignment of tasks.
 I. None of the above.
3. From the answers below, select the one that BEST reflects your experience using project management principles.
 A. I have experience providing advice and guidance to mid-level management.
 B. I have experience providing recommendations to my immediate supervisor and/or team leaders.
 C. I have experience providing advice and making recommendations to upper management, in internal and external organizational roles.
 D. None of the above.
4. Choose the responses that describe your experience managing a team and administrative staff. (Select all that apply)
 A. I developed program and individual performance goals and performance plans.
 B. I used awards to recognize high performing employees and I have motivated others to improve performance.
 C. I resolved interpersonal problems before they become disruptive, and take necessary performance and disciplinary actions.
 D. I developed a professional, high-performing team to respond to customer requests proactively.
 E. None of the above.
5. Please indicate in which of the following policy/illicit finance issues you have experience utilizing on a daily basis:
 A. National Security
 B. Anti-money laundering
 C. Counter terrorist/threat finance
 D. Non-Proliferation
 E. Narcotics trafficking
 F. Organized Crime
 G. Political Instability
 H. Vulnerabilities in the Financial System
 I. Cyber threats to the U.S. financial system
 J. U.S. economic sanctions programs
 K. European Union sanctions programs
 L. U.S. foreign policy
 M. International relations
 N. International commercial transactions
 O. International Financial transactions
 P. Financial Supervision
 Q. Corruption Issues
 R. International Bargaining and Negotiation
 S. None of the above
6. Choose the statement that best describes your experience with illicit finance issues.
 A. I have experience with illicit finance and the techniques and principles of countering money laundering/terrorist financing.
 B. I have experience of technical or operational aspects of illicit finance, money laundering/terrorist financing techniques and sources, and organization policies and attitudes.
 C. I have experience of technical or operational aspects of illicit finance, money laundering/terrorist financing techniques and sources, and intelligence programs and their relation to the national security.
 D. I have experience with counter illicit finance programs conducted by the Federal government, their operations, and their relation to the national intelligence activity.
 E. None of the above.
7. From the choices below, please check areas in which you have specific subject matter experience:
 A. Illicit Finance
 B. Regional Expertise
 C. Counter Terrorism Finance
 D. Anti-Money Laundering
 E. National Security
 F. Domestic and International Financial System
 G. International Affairs
 H. Intelligence
 I. Counter Intelligence
 J. Economics or Finance
 K. International Trade
 L. None of the above
8. One of the primary responsibilities of the incumbent of this position is to interact with senior level officials, including those from non-Terrorism & Financial Intelligence (TFI) related components. What is your experience working with senior level officials?
 A. I have briefed senior leadership on pertinent issue.
 B. I have experience engaging foreign officials.
 C. I have developed memos and talking points for senior officials.
 D. I have advised on policy related issues.
 E. I have advised on policy related to Anti-Money Laundering (AML) or Countering the Financing of Terrorism (CFT).
 F. None of the above.
9. Choose the statements that describe your communication skills regarding illicit finance topics.
 A. I have developed and presented illicit finance briefings at meetings or conferences.
 B. I have presented information and/or persuasive statements on illicit finance issues to varied audiences.
 C. I have routinely briefed high level officials on illicit finance issues, injecting analytical judgments and additional information as needed.
 D. I have routinely represented my agency at meetings to communicate organizational strategies, goals, objective, or priorities on illicit finance issues.
 E. None of the above.
10. What is your experience involving the development of finance policy and in developing strategies for the application of financial measures (Choose all that apply)?
 A. I have developed memos and talking points for anti-money laundering (AML), counter-terrorist financing (CFT) and proliferation finance.
 B. I have provided trip support.
 C. I have written policy papers or reports on illicit finance issues.
 D. I have advised on policy related to AML/CFT.
 E. None of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected