Position Title
TRAINING TECHNICIAN
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NM-12809515-AF-T32-025-017 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 30, 2025 to Wednesday, October 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Current nationwide military/prior members willing and eligible to become National Guard members.  Are you a current military or prior member willing and eligible to become a National Guard member?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current National Guard member within the state for which this position is being advertised?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Nationwide: Are you a member of the New Mexico Air National Guard or current, prior, Active Duty, or Reserve military member eligible and wiling to become a member of the New Mexico Air National Guard?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess experience or knowledge in training centers, training programs, schools, and units and experience in conducting or developing education and training programs.and possess understanding of Air Force education and training policy requirements?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you possess the enlisted rank of E-7 OR E-8?
 Yes
 No


For each technical area below, select the response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and demonstrated capability.


4.
Knowledge of Army or Air Force education and training programs regarding their principles and procedures.
 I have no knowledge or demonstrated capability in this technical area.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of the fundamental concepts involved in this technical area. I will require formal training and close supervision to perform this work.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of some advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of working on most projects in this technical area with moderate assistance. I am able to perform this work with minimal supervision.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of many advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of mentoring others on some projects in this technical area. I am able to perform this work without supervision except in the most complex situations.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of most advanced concepts within this technical area. I am considered an expert in the field and am frequently consulted by others about this technical area. I am responsible for mentoring and training others in this technical area.


For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


5.
Experience in performing interviews and counseling techniques; training techniques and instruction methods; task analysis procedures, learning processes, curriculum development, training evaluations, and education and training systems and products; effective writing skills; editing practices; instructional media application, training reporting, program and curriculum validation, and implementation procedures.
 I do not have experience or demonstrated capability in performing this activity, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 I have a fair amount of experience and a fair amount of demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform this activity more effectively.
 I have considerable experience and considerable demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively.
 I have extensive experience and extensive demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I am considered an expert; I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. I have received verbal and/or written recognition from others in carrying out this activity.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙