Position Title
Immigration Officer
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12807172-FDSWASVA-IMP-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 29, 2025 to Wednesday, October 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current USCIS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 Yes
 No


2.
The Reemployment Priority List (RPL) is the mechanism DHS uses to give reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees separated by reduction-in-force (RIF), or fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a former USCIS employee?  If so, have you met all of the following criteria?
Registered for the RPL program, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupied a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current/most recent performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent, and
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606
For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, visit 5 CFR 330 Subpart B.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
My SF-50 showing Separation - RIF. If that is not available yet, then official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who is in a permanent position that is in the competitive service (see block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type)?

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of our SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who has held, or currently holds, a permanent position in the competitive service (see block #34 of your SF-50) with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?  

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
 Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12
13


2.
There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 Yes
 No
 The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.


3.
Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) from the Federal Government within the last 5 years?
 Yes
 No


4.
I acknowledge that this position is NOT remote and that if selected, I will be expected to report to the duty station listed within the announcement text.
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I understand this requirement.
By answering NO to this question, I am asking to be removed from further consideration for this position.
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


13.
Have you performed searches to identify duplicate Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and Privacy Act (PA) cases, A-files, T-files, and receipt files?
 Yes
 No


14.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience interacting with intelligence agencies?
 I analyzed intelligence received indirectly and incorporated it into decision-making.
 I have been a point of contact for intelligence agencies.
 I routinely cultivated relationships with intelligence agencies to promote inter-agency collaboration.
 I have no experience, training, or education related to interacting with intelligence agencies.
 I completed education and/or training related to interacting with intelligence agencies, but do not have professional experience.


15.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience interacting with law enforcement entities?
 I analyzed law enforcement information received indirectly and incorporated it into decision-making.
 I have been a point of contact for law enforcement entities.
 I cultivated relationships with law enforcement entities to promote inter-agency collaboration.
 I have no experience, training, or education related to interacting with law enforcement entities.
 I completed education and/or training related to interacting with law enforcement entities, but do not have professional experience.


16.
Which activities have you performed to provide assistance to immigration personnel?
 A. Identified individuals who posed a threat to national security.
 B. Prosecuted those who committed fraud while seeking services and benefits.
 C. Analyzed petitions and applications to discern fraud patterns.
 D. Participated in fact finding and supported enforcement personnel when information indicated fraud.
 E. Granted applications based on review of supporting documentation, data derived from a systems search, and/or evidence generated by hearings or interviews.
 F. Referred cases to appropriate channels where fraud was suspected.
 G. None of the above.


17.
Which activities have you performed pertaining to the prevention of immigration fraud?
 A. Analyzed anti-fraud and law enforcement check policies, procedures, and systems.|Assisted Immigration officers and Specialists in data collection.
 B. Generated reports and documented trends in immigration fraud.
 C. Accessed data systems to extract information pertinent to background check protocols.
 D. Participated in inter-agency and/or intra-agency task forces to enhance U.S. national security and the integrity of the legal immigration system.
 E. Detected red-flags pertaining to immigration fraud while reviewing case files.
 F. None of the above.


18.
Which activities have you performed related to detecting immigration fraud?
 A. Accessed Immigration data systems for research (e.g. NCIC, TECS, etc.).
 B. Verified and evaluated Immigration Benefit Applications.
 C. Conducted interviews.
 D. Identified common fraud patterns and trends.
 E. None of the above.


19.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience producing official records for legal representation?
 I have no experience, training, or education related to producing official records.
 I completed education and/or training related to producing official records, but do not have professional experience.
 I prepared adjudication notices such as denial and approval notices, request for information, and notices of intent to deny.
 I responded to Congressional, inter-agency, or intra-agency legal inquiries in written or memo format.
 I wrote responses or testimony for Congressional, interagency, or intra-agency inquiries based on knowledge of federal laws, rules, regulations, policies, and procedures.


20.
Which sources have you researched to identify and detect Immigration Fraud?
 A. Immigration and Nationality Act.
 B. Law Enforcement databases.
 C. Obtained information from other agencies.
 D. National Criminal Information Center (NCIC).
 E. Treasury Enforcement Communication System (TECS).
 F. Interviews and sworn statements.
 G. None of the above.


21.
Select the statements that describe your experience processing and investigating immigration benefits cases.
 A. I safeguarded Personally Identifiable Information (PII).
 B. I investigated and determined Benefit Fraud.
 C. I identified current fraud patterns and trends.
 D. I handled classified information in accordance with regulations.
 E. I explained Immigration and Nationality Act rules, regulations and policies to others.
 F. None of the above.


22.
Which activities you have performed related to the detection of Immigration Fraud?
 A. Reported on the effectiveness of anti-fraud operations.
 B. Recommended corrective action plans, such as changes in local, state, and/or national policies and procedures.
 C. Identified specific and unique vulnerabilities to the integrity of the legal immigration system.
 D. Identified systematic vulnerabilities to the integrity of the legal immigration system.
 E. Applied corrective actions to strengthen the legal immigration system based on identified vulnerabilities.
 F. Prepared analyses to enhance local, regional, and national immigration fraud policies.
 G. None of the above.


23.
Which statement best represents your highest level of experience developing immigration policies, programs, and procedures independently?
 I have no experience, training, or education related to developing immigration policies, programs or procedures.
 I completed education and/or training related to developing immigration policies, programs or procedures, but do not have professional experience.
 I independently conducted research on program management best practices.
 I reviewed proposed legislation on adjudications programs and recommended changes where appropriate.
 I participated in working groups to negotiate policy changes.
 I prepared executive-level reports on the impact of proposed immigration adjudicative policy on the agency mission.


24.
Select the activities you have completed to communicate with applicants and petitioners applying for immigration benefits.
 A. I independently communicated highly technical immigration laws to customers seeking immigration benefits.
 B. I mitigated applicants' objections by analyzing issues and identifying appropriate resources for expedient resolution.
 C. I developed Standard Operating Procedures on how to appropriately adjudicate applications and petitions for immigration benefits.
 D. I followed-up with applicants and petitioners to ensure there were no new/remaining issues.
 E. None of the above.


25.
Select the activities you have performed related to ensuring the accuracy of data related to immigration fraud.
 A. Reviewed applications/petitions for completeness.
 B. Verified accuracy of entered data|Updated database with new or revised information.
 C. Created queries to facilitate data review.
 D. Conducted database searches to identify potential issues (i.e., fraud).
 E. None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙