Position Title
Financial Economist (RESEARCH)
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
25-DO-12765096 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 15, 2025 to Monday, July 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current Treasury Department employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current Treasury employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current Treasury employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current Department of Treasury employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other
3. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
4. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
6. Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.
7. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Individual Occupational Requirements: 

A. Degree: economics, that included at least 21 semester hours in economics and 3 semester hours in statistics, accounting, or calculus.

OR

B. Combination of education and experience: courses equivalent to a major in economics, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education.

Examples of qualifying experience include:
Individual economic research assignments requiring planning, information assembly, analysis and evaluation, conclusions and report preparation;
supervisory or project coordination assignments involving a staff of professional economists, and requiring the evaluation and interpretation of economic information; or
teaching assignments in a college or university that included both class instruction in economics subjects and one of the following (1) personal research that produced evidence of results, (2) direction of graduate theses in economics, or (3) service as a consultant or advisor on technical economics problems.
Experience in related fields that did not involve the use and understanding of economic principles and theories may not be used as qualifying experience for these positions. Special attention on this point should be given to certain types of work that may or may not have provided professional economic experience.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you meet the education requirements, or the combination of education and experience requirements described above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Specialized experience for the GS-15: To be qualified for GS-15 level, you must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the federal service. This is equivalent to performing the following duties for a minimum of one year:
Analyze, interpret, and provide information, analysis, technical advice, and recommendations on transfer pricing rules. Analysis should be supported with statistical, mathematical, and econometric modeling techniques; economics theory; and judgment.; AND
Establish methods and modeling to support transfer pricing policy objectives.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. Do you meet the specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Which of the following best describes your experience with transfer pricing analyses.

 A. I have independently produced transfer pricing analyses.
 B. I have been a major contributor to transfer pricing analyses.
 C. I have assisted in producing transfer pricing analyses.
 D. I have limited experience with transfer pricing analyses.
 E. I have no experience in producing transfer pricing analyses.
4. Which of the following best describes your experience working with OECD work product, particularly the Transfer Pricing Guidelines and other output of OECD working party 6 (transfer pricing).

 A. I have expertise and in-depth knowledge of OECD public documents, particularly as it relates to transfer pricing.
 B. I have some expertise and in-depth knowledge of OECD public documents, particularly as it relates to transfer pricing.
 C. I have limited expertise and in-depth knowledge of OECD public documents, particularly as it relates to transfer pricing.
 D. I have none of the above experience.
5. Which of the following describe your experience with section 482 of the U.S. income tax regulations (e.g., understanding, application)?

 A. I have expertise and in-depth knowledge of the section 482 regulations.
 B. I have some experience and knowledge of the section 482 regulations.
 C. I have limited experience working with the section 482 regulations.
 D. I have no experience with the U.S. section 482 regulations.
6. Which statistical software/programing languages are you proficient in (select all that apply)?
 A. SAS
 B. STAT
 C. Fortran
 D. R
 E. MatLab
 F. Other
 G. I have no experience with statistical software.
7. If you answered Other, please describe. If you did not select "Other", please put "N/A". (limit 250 characters)
8. Which of the following best describes your experience in developing new economic models or spreadsheets analyzing intercompany prices (e.g., through Excel of other spreadsheet models)?

 A. I have independently developed, estimated, and interpreted the results of transfer pricing models to evaluate intercompany prices.
 B. I have worked with others to develop transfer pricing models.
 C. I have regularly applied transfer pricing models.
 D. I have limited experience in developing or using transfer pricing.
 E. I have no experience in performing these tasks.
9. Which of the following best describes your experience in utilizing complex data sets to analyze public policies?

 A. I have worked independently to construct and use complex data sets to analyze the effect of tax or other public policies.
 B. I have worked independently to use complex data sets to analyze the effect of tax or other public policies.
 C. I have worked with others to measure the impact of public policies, using at least one complex data set.
 D. I have limited experience in utilizing complex data sets.
 E. I have no experience in utilizing complex data sets.
10. Which of the following best describes your experience presenting economic policy analysis to colleagues?

 A. I have extensive experience presenting complex economic analysis to a range of audiences.
 B. I have some experience presenting complex economic policy to colleagues.
 C. I have regularly assisted in the preparation of economic policy analysis for others to present.
 D. I have limited experience presenting economic policy analysis to colleagues.
 E. I have no experience presenting economic policy analysis.
11. Which of the following best describes your experience presenting transfer pricing to colleagues?

 A. I have extensive experience presenting transfer pricing analysis to a range of audiences.
 B. I have some experience presenting transfer pricing analysis to colleagues.
 C. I have regularly assisted in the preparation of transfer pricing analysis for others to present.
 D. I have limited experience presenting transfer pricing analysis to colleagues.
 E. I have no experience presenting transfer pricing analysis.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected