Position Title
General Attorney (Retired U.S. Federal Civil Service)
Agency
Immigration and Customs Enforcement
Announcement Number
RHA-12787688-JP Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 27, 2025 to Wednesday, December 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Birmingham, AL
 B. Eloy, AZ
 C. Florence, AZ
 D. Phoenix, AZ
 E. Tucson, AZ
 F. Adelanto, CA
 G. Concord, CA
 H. El Centro, CA
 I. Los Angeles, CA
 J. Otay, CA
 K. Sacramento, CA
 L. San Diego, CA
 M. San Francisco, CA
 N. Santa Ana, CA
 O. Van Nuys, CA
 P. Centennial, CO
 Q. Denver, CO
 R. Hartford, CT
 S. Fort Lauderdale, FL
 T. Fort Myers, FL
 U. Jacksonville, FL
 V. Miami, FL
 W. Orlando, FL
 X. Pompano Beach, FL
 Y. Tampa, FL
 Z. Atlanta, GA
 AA. Atlanta, GA
 AB. Lumpkin, GA
 AC. Honolulu, HI
 AD. Boise, ID
 AE. Chicago, IL
 AF. Indianapolis, IN
 AG. Des Moines, IA
 AH. Louisville, KY
 AI. Baton Rouge, LA
 AJ. Jena, LA
 AK. New Orleans, LA
 AL. Oakdale, LA
 AM. Baltimore, MD
 AN. Hyattsville, MD
 AO. Boston, MA
 AP. Chelmsford, MA
 AQ. Detroit, MI
 AR. Grand Rapids, MI
 AS. Minneapolis, MN
 AT. Saint Paul, MN
 AU. Kansas City, MO
 AV. Saint Louis, MO
 AW. Omaha, NE
 AX. Las Vegas, NV
 AY. Elizabeth, NJ
 AZ. Newark, NJ
 BA. Chaparral, NM
 BB. Batavia, NY
 BC. Brooklyn, NY
 BD. Buffalo, NY
 BE. Nassau County, NY
 BF. New York, NY
 BG. Newburgh, NY
 BH. Suffolk County, NY
 BI. Charlotte, NC
 BJ. Raleigh, NC
 BK. Brooklyn Heights, OH
 BL. Cleveland, OH
 BM. Columbus, OH
 BN. Oklahoma City, OK
 BO. Portland, OR
 BP. Philadelphia, PA
 BQ. Pittsburgh, PA
 BR. York, PA
 BS. San Juan, PR
 BT. Charleston, SC
 BU. Columbia, SC
 BV. Memphis, TN
 BW. Nashville, TN
 BX. Conroe, TX
 BY. Dallas, TX
 BZ. Dilley, TX
 CA. El Paso, TX
 CB. Harlingen, TX
 CC. Houston, TX
 CD. Irving, TX
 CE. Laredo, TX
 CF. Los Fresnos, TX
 CG. Pearsall, TX
 CH. San Antonio, TX
 CI. Salt Lake City, UT
 CJ. Annandale, VA
 CK. Richmond, VA
 CL. Sterling, VA
 CM. Seattle, WA
 CN. Spokane, WA
 CO. Tacoma, WA
 CP. Milwaukee, WI
2. Would you accept a term appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service? If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Assessment 1
1. Are you an active member and in good standing of the bar in a state, territory of the United States, District of Columbia, or Commonwealth of Puerto Rico?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Applicants who retired from the federal civilian service who are receiving an annuity under FERS or CSRS are eligible for consideration.  An SF-50 or equivalent personnel action that reflects your position title and retirement status must be submitted with your application.
2. Are you currently a civil service retiree from a U.S. federal government agency?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Did you include a copy of your retirement  SF-50 with your application submission?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Did you receive voluntary separation incentive payments from your agency when you retired.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected