Position Title
Contract Specialist
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12757182 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, June 30, 2025 to Sunday, July 6, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Condition of Employment
1. Are you a current CNIC NAF employee?

*If you answer yes to this question, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Personnel Action Report (PAR/SF-50) showing your status as a CNIC employee. Failure to provide documentation to support your claim may result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-appropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the specialized experience and/or education to qualify for the NAF Contract Specialist position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure that your resume and transcript(s) fully support the response you choose for each of the questions below.
1. Which of the following do you possess?
 A. I possess a Ph. D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree.
 B. I possess at least 3 years of specialized experience and demonstrated job performance in a contracting position.
 C. I possess an equivalent combination of education and specialized experience.
 D. I have no experience with the above.
2. Choose the answer that best describes your education as related to the occupational requirement for this position:
 A. A 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor’s degree with a major in any field
 B. At least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management.
 C. I do not possess any of the above.
3. How many years of experience do you have implementing the policies and procedures of contracting in relation to procurement?
 A. I have 5+ years of experience with the above.
 B. I have 4 to 5 years of experience with the above.
 C. I have 3 to 4 years of experience with the above.
 D. I have less than 3 years of experience with the above.
 E. I have no experience with the above.
4. How many years of experience do you have reviewing statements of work, solicitations, and/or contract requirements for supplies and services?
 A. I have 5+ years of experience with the above.
 B. I have 4 to 5 years of experience with the above.
 C. I have 3 to 4 years of experience with the above.
 D. I have less than 3 years of experience with the above.
 E. I have no experience with the above.
5. How many years of experience do you have conducting contract negotiations pertaining to procurement or acquisitions?
 A. I have 5+ years of experience with the above.
 B. I have 4 to 5 years of experience with the above.
 C. I have 3 to 4 years of experience with the above.
 D. I have less than 3 years of experience with the above.
 E. I have no experience with the above.
6. How many years of experience do you have reviewing various contract proposals or contract bids to determine a method of procurement (e.g., purchase order, delivery order, or purchase card)?
 A. I have 5+ years of experience with the above.
 B. I have 4 to 5 years of experience with the above.
 C. I have 3 to 4 years of experience with the above.
 D. I have less than 3 years of experience with the above.
 E. I have no experience with the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected