Position Title
Blind Rehabilitation Outpatient Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-12760283-25-AR-Foxtrot Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, July 18, 2025 to Monday, July 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you willing to accept the working conditions as indicated in the announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
6. A current, valid state-issued Driver's License is required for this position. NOTE: We cannot accept photographs, therefore; please do not submit a copy of your license with your application package. If an interview is requested, you will be required to provide a copy of your current, valid state-issued Driver's License.

Do you possess a current and valid state-issued driver's license?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest as a Blind Rehabilitation Outpatient Specialist with the Veterans Health Administration.  Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.

Note: Education must be verified by uploading copies of unofficial college transcripts with your resume. Experience will be verified by applicant's completing the duty section under each job history section in the resume. Failure to upload your transcripts and/or adequately document your job experience and/or knowledge, skills, and abilities may result in disqualification of your application materials for this position. Please read the job announcement carefully to ensure all pertinent data in included in your resume.

Select "Yes" or "No" to the following question(s).
1. Education: Bachelor's degree from accredited college or university w/ major field of study in blind or vision rehabilitation or closely related program in rehabilitation, special education, family & consumer science education, technology & industrial arts education
OR
Master's degree from accredited college or university w/ major field of study in blind or vision rehabilitation, or closely related program in rehabilitation, special education, family & consumer science education, technology & industrial arts education
OR
Bachelor's or master's degree from accredited college or university w/out major field of study & obtained certificate from accredited college or university in core curriculum in orientation & mobility, vision rehabilitation therapy, assistive technology for blind & visually impaired individuals, or low vision therapy. Education must have included supervised practice
AND
Completion of 1 year progressively complex experience equivalent to BRS GS-9 grade
OR
3 years progressively higher-level graduate education leading to doctoral degree in blind rehabilitation or directly related field
Note: Foreign graduates must have proof of minimum of bachelor's degree from accredited college or university or foreign equivalent as verified through independent credential evaluation company w/ specialization in blind rehabilitation.

Do you meet the basic requirements listed above?

Note: You must upload a copy of all of your unofficial transcripts in order to demonstrate that you required education. And, if applicable, you must demonstrate that you meet the required experience in the employer work experience section of your resume. Failure to upload a copy of the required transcripts and demonstrate the required experience may disqualify you from this recruitment pool.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Provide the following information regarding the academic institution(s) from which you received your Bachelor and/or Master's degree or other details to support your above response.
Name of Institution
City and State
Level of Education (diploma, ASN, BSN, MSN, etc.)
Month and Year conferred
3. Certification: All applicants must hold at least one of the following certifications granted by the Academy for Certification of Vision Rehabilitation & Education Professionals, ACVREP as follows....
Orientation & mobility training - Certified Orientation and Mobility Specialists, COMS?
Communication & daily living therapy - Certified Vision Rehabilitation Therapists, CVRT?
Low vision therapy - Certified Low Vision Therapists, CLVT?
Assistive technology - Certified Assistive Technology Instructional Specialist, CATIS?
Do you currently possess at least one of the certifications by the ACVREP as listed above?

Note: You must upload a copy of the current ACVREP certification with your application materials. Failure to upload a copy of the required certification may disqualify you from this recruitment pool.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Provide the following information regarding your Blind Rehabilitation Outpatient Specialist current, active, full, and unrestricted certification(s) to be potentially eligible for appointment (at least one for the GS-11 and at least two for the GS-12).
Name on License/Certificate
Certification Program
Issuing state or territory
Complete license number
Expiration date
5. GS-11

Experience or Education. None beyond the basic requirements

AND

Certification At least one ACVREP certification, see list of applicable ACVREP certifications above.

AND

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities, KSAs Candidate must demonstrate all following KSAs plus above experience

a) Knowledge & understanding of highly specialized complex evaluations & diagnostic tests & procedures of blind/vision rehabilitation
b) Ability to properly assess wide variety of patients having multiple disabilities to make recommendations for blind/vision rehabilitation therapeutic interventions
c) Skill in development & writing of blind/vision rehabilitation plan that includes evaluation information from multiple disciplines w/ observable, measurable goals & that identifies specific outcomes
d) Knowledge of teaching methods & learning principles
e) Ability to employ interventions, unusual motivational techniques & coordinate treatment w/ other professionals to achieve outcomes of rehabilitation plan
f) Skill in recommending appropriate blind/vision rehabilitation prosthetic devices for patients w/in scope of practice, making adaptations & modifications as required
g) Ability to plan, direct & distribute work assignments to volunteers, assistants, interns &/or BRSs at lower grade levels & perform assigned mentoring duties for staff, students & interns

Do you meet the GS-11 grade determination requirements?

Note: You must upload the following documents with your application materials:
A copy of all of your unofficial transcripts in order to demonstrate that you required education AND
A copy of an ACVREP listed above AND
Demonstrate that you meet the required experience in the employer work experience section of your resume, if applicable, AND
Demonstrate all the required KSAs listed above.
Failure to upload the required documents or demonstrate the required experience and KSAs may disqualify you from this recruitment pool.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. GS-12

Experience Completion of minimum of 1 year of experience equivalent to GS-11 grade level plus basic requirements

AND

Certification At least two ACVREP certifications listed above

AND

Demonstrated KSAs Candidate must demonstrate all following KSAs in addition to experience above

a) Skill to independently develop, plan & administer complex treatment programs
b) Ability to act as subject matter expert in blind/vision rehabilitation field & as consultant, supervisor &/or mentor in evaluating & treating patients in specialty or program areas
c) Ability to coordinate, motivate & effectively manage staff &/or committee members to include organizing work, setting priorities & delegating tasks & responsibilities
d) Ability to disseminate appropriate information through various media as consultant or mentor
e) Skill in interpersonal relationships in dealing w/ patients, employees, other team leaders, managers & other stakeholders
f) Ability to identify team group dynamics, objectively observe & modify behaviors
g) Ability to apply decision-making principles to adjust programs on day-to-day basis, to develop short-term & long-range goals & plan for future utilization of resources

Do you meet the GS-12 grade determination requirements for this position?

Note: You must upload the following documents with your application materials:
A copy of 2 ACVREP Certification s listed above AND
Demonstrate that you meet the required experience in the employer work experience section of your resume AND
Demonstrate all the required KSAs listed above.
Failure to upload the required documents or demonstrate the required experience and KSAs may disqualify you from this recruitment pool.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected