Position Title
Associate Chief Counsel (PTE)
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
CCAS-25-12792765-SES Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 29, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1. Have you held a political position within the Federal Government within five (5) years of the closing date of this announcement?
 A. Yes, I have held a political position within the past five years.
 B. Yes, I am currently in a position based on a political appointment.
 C. No, I have not held a political position within the past five years.
2. This position is supervisory/managerial as defined by the Office of Personnel Management's (OPM) General Schedule Supervisory Guide (GSSG). A one year probation to assess your ability to perform supervisory/managerial duties is required unless previously completed. Are you willing to serve a one year supervisory/managerial probation period if not already previously completed?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. NA - 1 Year Supervisory/Managerial Probation period was previously completed
3. Employees of the Internal Revenue Service Office of Chief Counsel (IRSCC) must demonstrate the highest level of ethics and integrity, and must be in compliance with all Federal Tax requirements. Applicants being considered for employment with the IRSCC will be subject to a tax check. Your responses to the following questions will be verified; Applicants providing false information may be made ineligible and will be subject to debarment for future employment opportunities with the IRSCC. Are you willing and able to undergo a Federal Tax check to meet this requirement prior to employment?
 A. Yes, I am willing and able to undergo a Federal tax check to meet this requirement prior to employment.
 B. No, I am not willing nor able to undergo a Federal tax check to meet this requirement and no longer wish to be considered for this position.
4. Executive Financial Disclosure Statement OGE Form 278e is used to assist agencies and employees to avoid conflicts between duties and financial interest. This position requires pre-employment financial disclosure and annually thereafter. Are you willing to disclose your financial affiliations prior to employment and annually thereafter to obtain and maintain employment in this position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Senior Executive Service (ES-0905-00) position with the IRS - Office of Chief Counsel.  Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position.  Your responses are subject to verification.  Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
 
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you possess a J.D. (Juris Doctorate) and/or a LL.M. (Master of Laws) from an ABA-Accredited law school.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you an active member in good standing of the bar in the state or territory of the United States or the District of Columbia, or commonwealth of Puerto Rico?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Integrity Certification: Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position and understand I will receive no further consideration.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected