Position Title
Addiction Therapist (Bachelor's Level)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSZ-12756461-25-BP Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, July 11, 2025 to Monday, July 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Addiction Therapist (Bachelor's Level) position with the VA. Select the appropriate answer to the following questions based on your level of education and experience that demonstrates you meet the basic requirements for this position. The following questions will address basic eligibility requirements for the Addiction Therapist position. Please select "Yes" or "No" to the following question(s).
1. Applicants must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with VA Handbook 5005, part II, chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3j. Do you meet this requirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you have a bachelor's degree in drug and alcohol studies or a related behavioral health field from an accredited college or university? (In some jurisdictions, individuals may not be required to hold a bachelor's degree to be licensed in Alcohol and Drug Treatment. VHA will not waive education requirements even if the candidate has a license that does not require a bachelor's degree.) TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your bachelor's degree.

Name of Institution
City and State
Level of Education (diploma, degree, etc.)
Month and Year conferred

4. Licensure: Do you have a full, current and unrestricted license in a state, territory, commonwealth, or the District of Columbia, to practice in the field of Alcohol and Drug Treatment;

AND

Have you completed one of the following?
International Certification and Reciprocity Consortium, Credentialed Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Counselor Certification; or
National Association for Alcoholism and Drug Abuse Counselors, National Certified Addiction Counselor Level 1

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Provide the following information regarding your license.

Name on License
Issuing state or territory
Complete license number
Expiration date

In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met when determining the grade of candidates.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
6. Grade Requirement GS-5:
There are no additional education or experience requirements above basic eligibility requirements for the GS-5 grade. Do you meet the basic requirements as listed in questions 1 - 5?

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Grade Requirement GS-7:
Do you possess at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level GS-5;
~OR~
Do you possess a bachelor's degree with an exemplary academic record as demonstrated by:
3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) as recorded on their official transcript, or as computed based on four years of education or as computed based on courses completed during the final two years of the curriculum; OR
3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final two years of the curriculum; OR
Class Standing: Applicants must be in the upper third of the graduating class in the college, university or major subdivision based on completed courses.
 A. Yes, I possess at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level GS-5
 B. Yes, I possess a bachelor's degree with an exemplary academic record
 C. No, I do not possess creditable experience or a bachelor's degree with an exemplary academic record.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
8. 0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) as recorded on their official transcript, or as computed based on four years of education or as computed based on courses completed during the final two years of the curriculum; OR

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. 5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final two years of the curriculum; OR
Class Standing: Applicants must be in the upper third of the graduating class in the college, university or major subdivision based on completed courses.

 A. Yes, I possess at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level GS-5
 B. Yes, I possess a bachelor's degree with an exemplary academic record
 C. No, I do not possess creditable experience or a bachelor's degree with an exemplary academic record.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
10. GS-7 Knowledge, Skills and Abilities: In addition to the experience/education requirements, do you demonstrate all of the following KSAs?
Knowledge of principles, concepts and methods of counseling and therapies used in treatment of individuals with SUDs.
Knowledge of appropriate documentation of substance use history and treatment.
Ability to identify patients who are in psychological distress.
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Grade Requirement GS-9:
Do you possess at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level GS-7?
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. GS-9 Knowledge, Skills and Abilities: In addition to the experience/education requirements, do you demonstrate all of the following KSAs?
Knowledge of coexisting medical or other mental health disorders as interrelated to SUDs.
Ability to complete assessments of substance use disorders, treatment planning and continued care planning.
Ability to develop and maintain effective working or therapeutic relationships with multidisciplinary staff, Veterans and their families, from various backgrounds and community resources to ensure appropriate referrals.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Employer name and complete address; Job title; Duties (be as detailed as possible); Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008); Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week); and Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.
Transcript Reminder - Due to the positive education requirement unofficial transcripts or an appropriate course listing must be submitted with your application. Applications will not be considered without appropriate transcripts.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected