Position Title
Recreation Aid (Lifeguard) NF-01
Agency
Army Installation Management Command
Announcement Number
O3NAFFK-25-12786388 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 20, 2025 to Wednesday, August 27, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Are you either:
(1) the spouse of a military Servicemember or civilian employee; or
(2) unmarried widow(er) of a member or former member of the uniformed Service; or
(3) unmarried child of a sponsor who either: (a) has not passed their 23rd birthday; or (b) is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that existed before that birthday; or (c) has not passed their 23rd birthday and is enrolled in a full time course of study in an institution of higher learning approved by a Secretary of an executive department specified in10 USC 111, and is (or was at the time of the member's or former member's death) in fact dependent on the sponsor for over one-half of his or her support?

If claiming yes, please upload a copy of the Sponsor's Permanent Change of Station (PCS) Orders listing the applicant by name. For additional information, please copy and paste this URL: https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/Applicants/NAF%20Applicant%20Information%20Kit.pdf

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you either:
(1)  the wife or husband of an active duty military member of the U.S. Armed Forces, including the U.S. Coast Guard and the full time National Guard or Reserves AND your marriage occurred PRIOR to the service member's relocation via a Permanent Change of Station (PCS) move to the military sponsor's new duty station? If claiming yes, please upload a copy of the sponsor's PCS Orders listing the applicant by name. If the PCS Orders do not list the applicant by name, additional documentation may be requested from the NAF Human Resources Office to further validate the eligibility claim.

OR

(2)  the wife or husband of a service member whose retirement or separation was based either on (a) 100% disability, or (b) death of the service member killed while on active duty? Note: Spouses seeking preference in conjunction with a PCS move and their military sponsor was killed while on active duty must submit documentation (a) verifying marriage (i.e., marriage license or other documentation), (b) showing the service member was released or discharged from active duty due to his or her death while on active duty, and (c) a statement that he or she is an unremarried widow or widower of the service member. 

For additional information, please copy and paste this URL: https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/Applicants/NAF%20Applicant%20Information%20Kit.pdf
 A. Yes
 B. No
Provide Two (2) References
1. In the narrative below, list two persons NOT related to you who can furnish information on your qualifications and character. Provide full name, address (complete with zip code), telephone number, email address, and occupation for each reference. Do not repeat names of supervisors.
Non-US National (Tier 1 Investigations or Higher)
Please read the following question carefully and indicate your response.
1. Are you a non-U.S. National who has resided in the United States (or U.S. Territories) for less than 3-consecutive years immediately preceding your expected availability date for employment? (Example: Subtract 3 years from the date you are available for employment. Have you lived in the U.S. less than 3-years in the past, up until today?)
 A. Yes
 B. No
Area of Consideration
1. Do you reside within the area of consideration for this vacancy? The Area of Consideration for this vacancy announcement is local to USAG Yongsan and Camp Casey. (Military Spouse Preference (MSP) and Family Member Preference (FMP) eligible candidates are included in the area of consideration.)

 A. Yes
 B. No
NAF Employment Requirements
1. Are you a United States (US) citizen or Permanent Resident eligible to work in the United States?
 A. Yes.
 B. No.
2. Please select the date you arrived in Korea.
 
3. Are you affiliated with United States Forces Korea (USFK), South Korea? Affiliation means that you are either: a family member/dependent to someone that is currently employed at the installation; a military spouse or family member of someone stationed at this installation and arrived in the country.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Please identify the type of visa that you currently hold. (Note: if this question does not apply, please input "N/A" in the text field). 

Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in Recreation Aid (Lifeguard) position with the Nonappropriated Funds Instrumentalities. Please respond to the question(s) below.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you currently have (or in the process of obtaining) and can maintain the following certifications: Lifeguarding and First Aid (American Red Cross or nationally recognized equivalent i.e. Star Guard, YMCA, or ELLIS); American Red Cross "Cardio-Pulmonary Resuscitation for the Professional; CPR for the Professional Rescuer/AED or equivalent (American Heart Association CPR/AED); and First Aid?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Can you work weekend, weekdays, holidays and night duty?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you willing to work irregular duties or when needed for special recreational events and related requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Your responses to the Eligibility Assessment and Occupational Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected