Position Title
Health System Specialist (Executive Assistant) Detail or Temporary Promotion
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSV-12797413-25-ZI Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 16, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs within the VISN the position is located?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Eugene, OR
 B. Roseburg, OR
2. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Health System Specialist (Executive Assistant) position with the Federal government.
For Temporary Promotion:

Time-In-Grade Requirement:
Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements within 30 days of the closing date of this announcement. The grade may have been in any occupation, but must have been held in the Federal service.  

An SF-50 that shows your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade.

For a GS-11 position you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-9.
For a GS-12 position you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-11.
For Detail or Temporary Promotion:

Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR):An IOR is a basic requirement that must be met in order to qualify for the 0671 occupational series. Education must be accredited by an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. 

To qualify for this occupational series, applicants MUST have one of the following listed below:
Undergraduate or graduate education with a major field of study such as hospital administration, public health administration, or related fields such as business or public administration with course work in health care administration (Transcript required).
OR,
Specialized Experience: Progressively responsible analytical or administrative, or clinical management or supervisory experience in the health care field: This work may have been performed in an operating health care facility or a higher organizational echelon with advisory or directional authority over such facilities. Work must have involved a close working relationship with facility managers and analysis and/or coordination of administrative, clinical, or other service activities, and provided knowledge of the following:
Missions, organizations, programs, and requirements of health care delivery systems;
Regulations and standards of various regulatory and credentialing groups; and
Government-wide, agency, and facility systems and requirements in various administrative areas such as budget, personnel, and procurement.
OR,
Special Provision for Inservice Placement: Successful completion of an agency-sponsored on-the-job training program may be substituted for qualifying experience, provided it included a formal individualized training plan. Such a training program must have been conducted in an operating health care system and included:
Assignments providing a knowledge of basic health system administration philosophies, practices, and procedures, and basic government administrative policies and requirements;
Practical assignments providing an opportunity to apply health system administration skills and principles (as the individual progresses, work assignments must be characteristic of the grade level to which he or she is assigned); and
Oversight by an experienced health system administrator with periodic evaluation of the individual's progress and appropriate adjustment of the training program.
1. How do you meet the Individual Occupational Requirement? Please select the response which most accurately describes you.
 A. I have undergraduate or graduate education with a major field of study such as hospital administration, public health administration, or related fields such as business or public administration with course work in health care administration (Transcript required).
 B. I have progressively responsible analytical or administrative, or clinical management or supervisory experience in the health care field.
 C. I have successful completion of an agency-sponsored on-the-job training program that included a formal individualized training plan.
 D. I do not meet the requirement and understand I will not be considered for this position.
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions and statements based on your current level of experience and/or education or training that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. If your resume does not support your questionnaire answers, we will not allow credit for your response(s).
2. GS-11 Minimum Qualifications:

In addition to the Individual Occupational Requirements, applicants must also meet the minimum qualifications. Carefully read the following description of experience and select the one that best describes your qualifications for the GS-11, Health Systems Specialist.
 A. I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-9 level in the Federal service that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties that is typically in or related to the work of this position. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: Performing personnel management and administration responsibilities with varied functions and activities; monitoring or assisting with processes and programs to ensure efficient functioning; applying knowledge of policies, regulations, and guidelines pertaining to the effective operation of a program; and preparing reports and/or written correspondence. NOTE: Experience must be fully documented on your resume and must include job title, duties, month & year starting and ending dates AND hours worked per week.
 B. I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a degree in hospital administration, public health administration, or related fields such as business or public administration with course work in health care administration). TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED.
 C. I have a combinations of specialized experience and successfully completed graduate-level education (beyond 36 semester hours) as described above. Only successfully completed graduate level education (in excess of the 2 years or 36 semester hours) and specialized experience to meet total experience requirements.
 D. I do not possess the specialized experience and/or education required for the GS-11 grade level.
3. GS-12 Minimum Qualifications:

In additional to the Individual Occupational Requirements, applicants must also meet the minimum qualifications. Carefully read the following description of experience and select the one that best describes your qualifications for the GS-12, Health Systems Specialist.
 A. I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level in the Federal service that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties that is typically in or related to the work of this position. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: Performing personnel management and administration responsibilities with varied functions and activities; developing, implementing and monitoring processes and programs to ensure efficient functioning; analyzing data and applying management principles and analytic technique to make recommendations to resolve issues and improve operations; applying knowledge of policies, regulations, and guidelines pertaining to the effective operation of a program; and preparing reports and/or written correspondence. NOTE: Experience must be fully documented on your resume and must include job title, duties, month & year starting and ending dates AND hours worked per week.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience required for the GS-12 grade level.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected