Position Title
SUPERVISORY MARKET SURVEILLANCE SPECIALIST
Agency
Securities and Exchange Commission
Announcement Number
25-IN-12786068-VM Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 20, 2025 to Wednesday, September 3, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Have you served on a Schedule C appointment or as a political appointee anytime within the last 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current SEC employee serving on a permanent or conditional appointment? 

To determine your eligibility, please refer to your last SF-50.  To be eligible, your tenure code must be 1 or 2 AND your status must reflect competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1). 

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. From the options below, please indicate the choice that BEST describes your situation:
 A. I am an external candidate and I certify that I have read and understand that should I be selected for the position, the resume and application materials I have submitted will be used to determine salary. I also understand that I will not be permitted to provide an updated resume to OHR after the application period has closed.
 B. I am a current SEC employee and I certify that I have read and understand that should I be selected for this position and it results in a promotion, the standard percentage increase will be applied (i.e., 6% for non-supervisory and 10% for supervisory positions) to determine my salary. I understand that should I be selected for this position and it results in lateral movement (i.e. no change in grade) I will maintain my current salary. I also understand that if I should be selected for this position and it results in a change in grade from an SK-15 to an SK-16, I will maintain my current salary.
2. How did you hear about this position?
--Select-- 
--Select--
American Economic Association (AEA-JOE Network)
Career Fair (Please specify below)
College/University Job Board (e.g., Handshake, Symplicity)
Email from SEC Recruitment Team
Facebook
Friend (non-SEC Employee)
Friend (SEC Employee) (Please specify below)
I am a current SEC Employee or Contractor
Indeed
Job Board (Please specify below)
LinkedIn – Job Post
LinkedIn – Message from SEC Recruiter
SEC Careers Website (www.sec.gov/careers)
SEC Information Session
Social Science Research Network (SSRN)
USAJOBS – Job Search
USAJOBS – Message from SEC Recruiter
USAJOBS – Saved Search Email
X (formerly known as "Twitter")
Other source (e.g., job board, print ad, professional organization, website) (Please specify below)
3. Please specify based on your selection above as applicable:
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Market Surveillance Specialist, SK-1801-17 position within the Division of Enforcement (ENF) at the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Are you a current permanent or conditional, competitive service employee assigned to the Division of Enforcement within the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission? Please refer to block 24 for Tenure and block 34 for "Position Occupied" of your latest Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. From the descriptions below, select the response that best describes your ability to perform as a Supervisory Msrket Surveillance Specialist, SK-1801-17.
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS/SK-14 level: (1) conducting enforcement investigations or litigation and making recommendations for enforcement actions to the Commission; AND (2) planning, organizing, and coordinating enforcement projects or initiatives relating to Enforcement investigations, policies or processes; AND (3) developing strategic resolutions to problems or obstacles that may arise in the course of an enforcement investigation or litigation
 B. I do not have the experience as described above and therefore I am ineligible for the position.
The following questions assess your qualifications. Please select the best answer(s) that describe(s) your experience.
3. Select the statement that best demonstrates your knowledge of market surveillance systems, investigations, operations, processes, and strategies.
 A. I have a good understanding of market surveillance systems and processes, and have conducted market surveillance operations and investigations under supervision.
 B. I work independently in conducting market surveillance research, and require little supervision on most routine matters.
 C. I have served as a senior advisor on market surveillance.
 D. I am considered a leading technical authority in market surveillance systems, and provide oversight of securities markets by gathering market intelligence, and analyzing trading activity in equities, options, and various securities instruments.
 E. My level of experience is less than as described above.
4. Select the statement(s) that demonstrate your experience with market surveillance systems, operations, processes and investigations. (select all that apply)
 A. I have served as a technical adviser providing market surveillance counsel and recommendations involving securities markets.
 B. I have conducted analysis, and have reviewed trading activity that has been utilized in Enforcement investigations.
 C. I have performed complex investigations related to all aspects of securities trading, possible market manipulations and/or broker dealer practices.
 D. I have served as a lead for a formal investigation.
 E. I have collaborated with staff both in and outside the SEC on matters of market surveillance.
 F. My level of experience is less than as described above.
5. From the list below select the statement that describes your experience utilizing technological advancements and developing novel and non-traditional pro-active investigative approaches in conducting market research investigations.
 A. I have some experience in utilizing technological advancements in conducting market research investigations.
 B. I have limited experience utilizing technological advancements in conducting market research investigations.
 C. I have extensive experience utilizing technological advancements to develop pro- active investigative approaches in conducting market research investigations
 D. My level of experience is less than as described above.
6. Select the statement that best demonstrates your knowledge of securities laws and acts applicable to Market Surveillance including market operations and trading strategies.
 A. I have an excellent understanding of securities laws and acts applicable to market operations and trading strategies, and am capable of working independently with little or no supervision.
 B. I have a basic understanding of securities laws and acts applicable to securities market operations and trading strategies.
 C. I am considered a subject matter expert on securities laws and acts, securities market operations and trading strategies, and am the go-to person in my areas of expertise
 D. My level of experience is less than as described above.
7. Please select the statement that best describes your experience gathering, compiling, and analyzing financial and/or auditing information.
 A. I have extensive experience gathering, compiling, and analyzing complex financial information; and have an expert understanding of the federal securities laws.
 B. I have some experience gathering, compiling, and analyzing complex financial data; and have professional understanding of the federal securities laws.
 C. I have limited experience gathering, compiling, and analyzing complex financial data; and have some understanding of the federal securities.
 D. I do not have experience in performing this task.
8. Select the statement that demonstrates your ability to conduct complex investigations to determine potential federal securities laws violations, and to support litigation of those potential violations.
 A. I have assisted in complex investigations of potential federal securities laws violations.
 B. I have conducted investigations of potential federal securities laws violations.
 C. I have conducted complex investigations and developed reports related to all aspects of securities trading to include insider trading, market manipulation, clearing firms, investment advisors, transfer agents, and self-regulatory organizations.
 D. I have conducted analysis, and have reviewed trading activity that has been utilized in Enforcement investigations.
 E. I do not have experience in performing this task.
9. Please select the response that best describes your experience analyzing organizational and operational problems and developing solutions.
 A. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a manager or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedure.
 B. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 C. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and others regularly consult me to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise.
 D. I do not have experience in performing this task.
10. Please select the statement that best describes your experience serving as a technical expert and representing an agency in meetings, conferences and a wide range of public forums.
 A. I have represented my organization at significant external meetings and conferences where I presented the organization’s view-points on market surveillance issues to align with the organization’s/agency’s mission. Contacts were generally with other federal agencies and external organizations within the securities industry, and/or with securities industry professionals.
 B. I have made presentations to senior level professionals, managers, or at conferences, and other public settings to brief audiences on research data collected, market manipulation and surveillance priorities and risk areas.
 C. I have presented analytical research findings and presented recommendations within the agency to supervisors and staff members.
 D. I have not had experience related to making presentations.
11. Select the statement(s) that demonstrate your ability to produce complex technical or legal reports, or to speak convincingly on market surveillance issues to executive level management and regulatory staff. (select all that apply)
 A. Represent agency in meetings, conferences, or public forums.
 B. Respond to questions and inquiries on matters relative to on-going investigations from agency staff.
 C. Prepared exhibits to be used in hearings or trials.
 D. Prepared reports summarizing findings and conclusions based on the investigative record.
 E. My level of experience is less than as described above.
12. Select the statement that best demonstrates your experience with responding to questions and inquiries on matters relative to market surveillance policies and procedures.
 A. I have forwarded the majority of inquiries to my supervisor or other members of my team.
 B. I have been able to answer the majority of inquiries that I receive, but only after conducting additional research or reaching out to others for advice.
 C. I am able to answer the majority of inquiries I receive both in a public and private setting, and am genuinely recognized as a subject matter expert.
 D. My level of experience is less than as described above.
13. From the list below select the statements that describe your experience supervising or leading others (select all that apply).
 A. I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates, set and adjusted short-term priorities, and prepared schedules for completion of work.
 B. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty and requirements of assignments, and the capabilities of employees.
 C. I have given advice, counsel, or instruction to employees on both work and administrative matters.
 D. I have interviewed candidates for positions in the unit; recommended appointment, promotion, or reassignment to such positions.
 E. I have identified developmental and training needs of employees, providing or arranging for needed development and training.
 F. I have devised ways to improve production or increase the quality of the work directed.
 G. I have not had experience in performing this task.
14. Please select the statement that demonstrates your experience directing and managing staff engaged in investigating, examining, or auditing investment advisers, investment companies, transfer agents, and broker dealer operations, sales practices and financial conditions to ensure compliance with Commission or securities industry self- regulatory organization rules and regulations.
 A. I have extensive experience supervising and leading complex examinations, investigations, or audits effectively by setting a positive and professional tone for staff, effectively assigning and delegating responsibilities, and motivating staff to fulfill goals and objectives.
 B. I have some experience supervising and leading complex examinations, investigations, or audits.
 C. Although I have not had formal supervisory responsibilities, I have coordinated various types of examination, investigation, or auditing teams and facilitated an efficient and thorough process by communicating with the teams, to provide information needed to complete tasks and adapt to changing conditions.
 D. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected