Position Title
Advance Practice Nurse - Chief, Community Care
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSX-12829716-26-CO Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, November 5, 2025 to Monday, November 10, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
In order to qualify for this position as an Advanced Practice Nurse (Nurse Practitioner) (APN (NP)), you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as the additional grade-level requirements.

Applicants pending the completion of educational requirements may be referred and tentatively selected but may not be hired until the education requirements are met.

NOTE: Grandfathering Provision - All persons currently employed in VHA in 0610 series and an APN (NP) assignment that are also performing the duties as described in the qualification standard on the effective date of the standard (1/29/2024) are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade held including positive education and licensure/certification.


1.
ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY: In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7403(f), no person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?

 Yes
 No


2.
All Advanced Practice Nurse (Nurse Practitioners) must possess a post-master's certificate or master's or doctoral degree as a Nurse Practitioner. Must be a graduate of a school of professional nursing approved by the appropriate accrediting agency and accredited by one of the following accrediting bodies at the time the program was completed by the applicant:
The Accreditation Commission for Education in Nursing (ACEN) or
The Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE).
NOTE: Foreign Education. Graduates of foreign schools of professional nursing programs, the nurse practitioner degree equivalency must be validated through an Agency recognized degree equivalency evaluation agency, such as the International Consultants of Delaware (ICD). Candidates with equivalent nurse practitioner masters or doctorate level degrees who possess current, full, active, and unrestricted registration and certification will meet the requirement of graduation from an approved school of professional nursing to warrant appointment.

Do you meet the above requirements?
 Yes, I meet the education requirement or am a current VHA APN (NP) that meets the grandfathering provision.
 No
 No, I am pending graduation from an approved, accredited school of professional nursing.


3.
Provide the following information regarding the academic institution(s) from which you received your APN (NP) education.

Name of Academic Institution
City and State
Level of Education (post-master's certificate, master's, or doctoral degree)
Month and Year conferred (or expected completion date)


4.
Do you possess a current, full, active and unrestricted APN license to practice as an NP in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth (i.e., Puerto Rico) of the U.S. or in the District of Columbia.?
 Yes, I meet the licensure requirement or am a current VHA APN (NP) that meets the grandfathering provision.
 No


5.
Provide the following information regarding your APN (NP) licensure.

Name on License
Issuing state or territory
Complete license number
Expiration date


6.
Do you possess full and current board certification in an area of clinical specialty from one of the following:
The American Nurses Credentialing Center (ANCC) OR
The American Academy of Nurse Practitioners Certification Board (AANPCB) OR
Other nationally recognized certifying body in the area in which the Nurse Practitioner is academically prepared.
 Yes, I meet the board certification requirement or am a current VHA APN (NP) that meets the grandfathering provision.
 No


7.
Provide the following information regarding your APN (NP) board certification.

Name on Certification
Issuing state or territory
Complete license number
Expiration date


The following Scope, Education and Dimension criteria must be met in determining the grade assignment of candidates, and if appropriate, the level within a grade. Applicants pending completion of the degree requirements that meet the other grade-level requirements should select "Yes" as they maybe tentatively selected but may not be hired until their degree is conferred.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


8.
APN (NP) IV Requirements- Do you meet the following?
Scope: Executes leadership that is characterized by substantial and continuous responsibility and accountability for population groups or integrated programs that cross service and/or discipline lines and influence organizational mission and health care.
Education and Experience Requirements: Meets basic education requirement for an APN (NP) AND Four years of APN (NP) experience, one of which is specialized experience equivalent to Nurse III.
Dimension Requirements:
Practice. Practices at an associate executive level, utilizing clinical, leadership and administrative skills, demonstrating continuing responsibility that influences the organizational mission, health care delivery and policy at the local and/or regional level.
Outcome Focus. Leads the application of clinical/business models, incorporating research/evidence-based practices, designed to achieve and sustain excellence in the delivery of health care at the service and organization levels.
Leadership. Creates and implements a shared vision and successfully leads change to improve organizational performance and attain measurable performance outcomes.
Professional Development. Establishes innovative, current and future healthcare delivery models, policy/regulation and governance to cultivate a healthy lifestyle, improving health outcomes.
Professionalism/Collegiality. Facilitates effective relationship management, communication, customer service experiences and negotiation across lifestyles using a broad range of technology platforms to influence, inspire and motivate others within their program/service or beyond.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙