Position Title
AIRCRAFT MECHANIC - TITLE 32
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
KY-12827320-AF-26-012 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 29, 2025 to Thursday, November 27, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
AREA OF CONSIDERATION
1.
What is your current military grade?
E-1
E-2
E-3
E-4
E-5
E-6
E-7
E-8
E-9
W-1
W-2
W-3
W-4
W-5
O-1
O-2
O-3
O-4
O-5
O-6
O-7
O-8


2.
Are you a current member of the Kentucky Air National Guard?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions to the best of your knowledge and ability.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have experience removing and replacing aircraft parts, accessories, and components, and making adjustments and settings according to established specifications?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have 18 months experience installing, adjusting, aligning, troubleshooting and functionally testing the various major and minor
mechanical and pneudraulic systems on an aircraft during overhaul or modification?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have 18 months experience coordinating the work of other mechanics, and scheduling maintenance to ensure completion of critical actions and optimum workflow?

 Yes
 No


For each technical area below, select the response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and demonstrated capability.


4.
Do you have 18 months experience to instruct lower graded mechanics, military and other personnel in the disassembly and re-assembly of crash damaged engines, transmissions, gearboxes, hydraulic components, and fuel controls sufficient for the exhibit to be returned to its shipping container?
 I have no knowledge or demonstrated capability in this technical area.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of the fundamental concepts involved in this technical area. I will require formal training and close supervision to perform this work.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of some advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of working on most projects in this technical area with moderate assistance. I am able to perform this work with minimal supervision.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of many advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of mentoring others on some projects in this technical area. I am able to perform this work without supervision except in the most complex situations.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of most advanced concepts within this technical area. I am considered an expert in the field and am frequently consulted by others about this technical area. I am responsible for mentoring and training others in this technical area.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provide in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application or its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001): my eligibilities may be canceled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 C.F.R Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙