Position Title
SUPERVISORY MANAGEMENT & PROGRAM ANALYST
Agency
Defense Human Resources Activity
Announcement Number
DHRADSSC-25-12795321-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 9, 2025 to Monday, September 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a position with higher graded promotional potential than previously held?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. .

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and are applying a for a promotion?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).



 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and have held a position at or above the target grade for this position?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).


 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
are entitled to veterans preference?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes your highest-level of experience for the Supervisory Management & Program Analyst, GS-0301-15 position. To be creditable, specialized experience must be at the next lower grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. Read all the statements below completely before making your selection.

 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade-level (GS-14) which is in or directly related to the line of work of the position. Creditable specialized experience includes: Plan, develop, manage and coordinate the execution of commercial passenger travel policies and programs; analyze and evaluate systems, policies, programs and applications for effectiveness, quality, and progress in meeting program objectives; oversee the planning, development, and coordination of resource requirements, and advising leadership on the appropriate actions necessary to maintain an effective organization. (Experience must be reflected in resume.)
 B. My experience is not reflected in the statements above.
2. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your level of experience with obtaining efficient and economical commercial passenger travel services.

 A. I assisted with management studies, program reviews, and other special projects on commercial passenger travel programs.
 B. I have performed research to develop, implement, and/or modify commercial passenger travel programs.
 C. I have made recommendations to senior management for meeting program goals in obtaining efficient and economical commercial passenger travel services.
 D. None of the above.
3. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your level of experience providing oversight and direction for DoD commercial travel programs.

 A. Providing oversight and direction for DOD commercial travel programs has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 B. I have provided oversight and direction for DOD commercial travel programs on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 C. I have provided oversight and direction for DOD commercial travel programs as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee.
 D. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 E. I have completed formal education or training on how to provide oversight and direction for DOD commercial travel programs but have not yet performed this task on the job.
4. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your level of experience supporting the development of travel policy for commercial passenger travel programs

 A. I have developed and lead the development of passenger travel policies, for accuracy and or implementation in support of commercial passenger travel such as air, rental car, and ground transportation i.e., bus.
 B. I have interpreted passenger travel policies in support of commercial travel programs such as air, rental car, and bus.
 C. I have assisted with developing passenger travel polices in support of commercial passenger travel programs such as air, rental car, and bus.
 D. None of the above.
5. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your level of experience with advising and recommending application of initiatives in support of travel policies and programs.

 A. I have advised and recommended application of initiatives in support of travel policies and programs on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 B. I have advised and recommended application of initiatives in support of travel policies and programs as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee.
 C. Advising and recommending application of initiatives in support of travel policies and programs has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 D. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 E. I have completed formal education or training on how to advise and recommend application of initiatives in support of travel policies and programs but have not yet performed this task on the job.
6. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your level of experience evaluating the impact of travel related legislation on overall passenger travel program objectives.

 A. I responded to congressional inquiries based on commercial passenger travel related legislation changes/updates.
 B. I have determined the need for and implemented commercial passenger travel program changes based on travel related legislation changes/updates.
 C. I supported meetings with higher level management and recommended commercial passenger travel program changes based on travel related legislation changes/updates.
 D. None of the above.
7. Please select the statement that best describes your experience with researching and investigating new or improved business and management practices for commercial passenger travel programs.

 A. I prepared information briefings, papers, reports on commercial passenger travel service program business processes and practice improvements.
 B. I have performed and lead research and investigations, which resulted in the implementation of improved business and management practices related to commercial passenger travel programs.
 C. I stay abreast of new passenger travel business and management practices.
 D. None of the above.
8. Select the response that best describes your experience using analytical techniques to measure improvement of travel programs.

 A. I have participated on a team that used analytical techniques to measure improvement of travel programs.
 B. I have used analytical techniques to measure improvement of travel programs and it has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this duty routinely without supervision, and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 C. I have not had experience using analytical techniques to measure improvement of travel programs.
 D. I have participated in all phases of using analytical techniques to measure improvement of travel programs under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 E. I have used analytical techniques to measure improvement of travel programs and it has been a regular part of a job. I perform this duty independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee.
9. Select the response that best describes your experience evaluating the impact of travel related policies, regulations, and legislation on travel program objectives.

 A. I have evaluated the impact of travel related policies, regulations, and legislation on travel program objectives as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee.
 B. I have participated on a team that evaluated the impact of travel related policies, regulations, and legislation on travel program objectives.
 C. I have evaluated the impact of travel related policies, regulations, and legislation on travel program objectives under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 D. I have not had experience evaluating the impact of travel related policies, regulations, and legislation on travel program objectives.
 E. I have evaluated the impact of travel related policies, regulations, and legislation on travel program objectives s and it has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it routinely without supervision, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
10. I have documented experience providing technical assistance managing the following commercial travel programs. (select all that apply)

 A. Commercial Air
 B. Rental Car/Truck Programs
 C. Bus Program or other reliable ground transportation
 D. Travel Management Company
 E. Integrated Lodging Program
 F. DOD Dine Smart or similar program
 G. None of the above (If selected, this should be your only response)
11. Please select the response that best describes your experience awarding and managing DoD Commercial Travel contracts.

 A. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 B. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 C. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee.
 D. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 E. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
12. From the following list of communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied. (Select all that apply.)

 A. Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective.
 B. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments.
 C. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations.
 D. Organize work, set priorities, and determine resource requirements.
 E. Implement and/or utilize strategic plans on a daily basis.
 F. None of the above
13. Please select the response that best describes your experience articulating, negotiating, persuading and implementing policies, procedures and processes required by changes in the political, legislative, economic or operating environments.

 A. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely without supervision, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 B. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, often independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee.
 C. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 D. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 E. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
14. I routinely and extensively interact with the following through meetings, conferences, briefings, speeches, presentations, and oversight meetings. (Select all that apply.)

 A. General Services Administration (GSA)
 B. Military Services, Defense Agencies and Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) staff
 C. Congressional staff members
 D. Commercial Travel Industry Executives ? Airlines, Hotels, Rental Car companies- or Travel Management companies
 E. DoD Office of Inspector General (DoD IG)
 F. Other Federal agencies
 G. None of the above (If selected, this should be your only response)
15. Please select the response that best describes your experience researching, coordinating, and preparing position papers, information papers, documents, and other correspondence for senior leadership.

 A. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 B. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 C. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee.
 D. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 E. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
16. Please select the response that best describes your experience communicating with all levels of management presenting delicate positions on controversial or sensitive matters in a professional manner to support the mission.

 A. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 B. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 C. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee.
 D. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 E. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
17. I have documented experience developing ideas in a logical sequence to make effective and convincing oral presentations to a wide range of audiences at the most senior levels.

 A. True
 B. False
18. Select the statement that best represents your experience articulating/negotiating complex/sensitive issues with officials that have diverse perspectives and differing views.

 A. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 B. I have observed this task but have not yet participated on a team performing this task.
 C. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee.
 D. I have participated on a team performing this task but have not yet performed this duty independently on the job.
 E. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
19. Of the following duties, select all that you have utilized for the management of employees and programs? (Select all that apply)

 A. Direct staff through subordinate supervisors
 B. Assign and review work of subordinates
 C. Approve full range of personnel management actions
 D. Approve and implement organizational change proposals recommended by subordinate supervisors
 E. Develop long-range organizational plans and goals
 F. Provide management oversight and direction.
 G. Provide guidance for functional managers and subordinate supervisors to facilitate organizational effectiveness and efficiency.
 H. None of the above
20. For which of the following managerial functions do you have documented working experience? (Select all that apply)

 A. Effectuate Minor disciplinary measures
 B. Recommending action in serious cases
 C. Identifying developmental and training needs of employees
 D. Providing development and training
 E. Discover ways to improve production or increase the quality of work.
 F. Find ways to promote team building.
 G. None of the above
21. Please select the response that best describes your experience making selections for subordinate positions taking into consideration skills and qualifications, mission requirements, and EEO and diversity objectives?

 A. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 B. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee
 E. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
22. Please select all areas you have experience in regarding the planning of work to be accomplished by subordinates? (Select all that apply)

 A. Set and adjust short term priorities
 B. Prepares schedules for completion of work
 C. Assign work based on priorities
 D. Consider difficulties of assignments with capabilities of employees.
 E. Evaluate work performance
 F. None of the above
23. Do you have demonstrated experience or training in hearing and resolving complaints
from employees?

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected