Position Title
Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSZ-12811165-26-MB Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 9, 2025 to Monday, October 20, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist, position with the Veterans Health Administration.
The following are the basic requirements for appointment as a Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist (BESS) in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). These requirements apply to all Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist (GS-1601) positions in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. Transcripts - You must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application if qualifying based on education. Education cannot be credited without documentation.



1.
BASIC REQUIREMENTS:
Select "Yes" or "No" to the following question(s).
Education, Experience, or Certification.
(1) Associates or higher degree in the biomedical technology or biomedical engineering field; OR
(2) Associates or higher degree in electronics, a field of information technology, or engineering (other than biomedical engineering) AND 1 year of creditable experience; OR
(3) Completion of the Department of Defense (DOD) biomedical equipment technician training program; OR
(4) Completion of a DOD training program in repair and maintenance of electronic systems or information technology AND 1 year of creditable experience; OR
(5) Completion of a biomedical engineering technician or Healthcare Technology Management (HTM) certificate program that included an internship or apprenticeship; OR
(6) Completion of biomedical engineering technician or HTM certificate program that did not include an internship AND 1 year of creditable experience; OR
(7) Hold or having ever held certification as a Certified Biomedical Equipment Technician (CBET), Certified Radiology Equipment Specialist (CRES), Certified Laboratory Equipment Specialist (CLES), or Certified Healthcare Technology Manager (CHTM). Continuous maintenance of certification is not required throughout VHA employment.

Do you meet one of the education and/or experience requirements as stated above?
 Yes
 No


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Grade Level Determination GS-11: Do you have one year of experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade level?

Examples of experience include:
-Assists in lifecycle management of medical equipment and clinical systems.
-Troubleshoots medical equipment and clinical systems using a variety of technical data and completes corrective action.
-Performs planned maintenance on medical equipment and clinical systems.
-Assists with incoming inspections on medical equipment and clinical systems.
-Documents all work in the Computerized Maintenance Management System(CMMS).
-Assists with remediation and documentation of hazard alerts and recall notifications concerning medical equipment impacting the facility.
-Utilizes basic networking concepts in accordance with the VHA Medical Device Protection Program (MDPP), such as computer and server hardware and software used in conjunction with medical devices and clinical systems.
-Utilizes test equipment in accordance with manufacturer instructions.
-Provides customer support to staff, evaluates issues and needs, responds withsolutions, and keeps customers abreast of status.
-Educates staff on the safe operation and user-level maintenance of medicalequipment and clinical systems
-Complies with applicable standards, policies, procedures, and regulatory requirements.
 Yes
 No


In addition to the experience required, you must also meet the ALL of the demonstrated knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSA) for the respective GS-11grade level. Responses to the following questions are not required, however responses will be used as additional verification that you meet the Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist KSA's if we are not able to easily ascertain information in your resume.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Knowledge of standards including National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the Joint Commission (TJC), and the Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation (AAMI) for safe operation of medical equipment and clinical systems.
 Yes
 No


4.
Skill in using test and calibration equipment including digital multi- meters, electrical safety analyzers, defibrillator analyzers, patient simulators, manometers, tachometers, and Local Area Network (LAN) analyzers.
 Yes
 No


5.
Skill in interpreting a variety of technical data including schematic drawings and wiring diagrams.
 Yes
 No


6.
Skill in applying networking principles, such as Access Control List (ACL), Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP), and Virtual Local Area Networks (VLAN).
 Yes
 No


7.
Ability to perform advanced testing to troubleshoot medical equipment and clinical system interfaces.
 Yes
 No


8.
Ability to maintain medical computers and software.
 Yes
 No


9.
Ability to manage projects involving medical equipment and clinical systems.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙