Position Title
Supervisory Budget Analyst
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OFAM-IMP-12794309-GKJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 18, 2025 to Wednesday, September 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-14 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
3. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
4. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
5. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
6. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-14 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includesResponsible for directing, implementing, coordinating, and overseeing budget execution within OFAM, overseeing various functions and/or administrative programs. Analyzes and identifies potential impact and effect of new, revised, or proposed legislation, policies, procedures, executive orders, DHS and CBP directives on financial management, guidance from the Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Boards, and applicable Office of Personnel Management (OPM), Government Accountability Office and Office of Management and Budget (0MB) guidance. Interprets and explains technical guidance in planning and estimating funding needs.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
7.

All newly appointed, first-time CBP supervisors are required to complete the mandatory leadership training. The Office of Training and Development will schedule eligible supervisors to attend within the first 90 days of appointment. All newly appointed, first time permanent supervisors shall attain the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to successfully perform their supervisory responsibilities by completing required leadership training in accordance with current agency policy.

NOTE: This training may be waived if previously completed.

Do you acknowledge that you have read and understand the above requirement, including current or former first time supervisors who have previously completed the mandatory training and will not be required to retake the course?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
The following question will only be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following statements best describes your experience?

 A. I have at least one year of experience as a Budget Analyst, GS-0560-13 (or higher grade level), with the federal government.
 B. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level independently reviewing, analyzing, consolidating and revising budget estimates, justification statements and budget execution plans submitted by agency components; analyzing, interpreting and applying complex legislative, policy and regulatory decisions to develop budgetary plans, policies and guidance; and analyzing budget execution for a national-level program organization.
 C. I do not possess the experience described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
2. Indicate the extent of your experience developing budget recommendations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I assisted others in developing budget recommendations.
 C. I have formulated budget recommendations and estimates for small projects or operations.
 D. I have formulated budget recommendations for large and complex organizations to resolve problems, and have communicated these recommendations to senior level officials within my organization.
3. Indicate the extent of your experience analyzing budget data to ensure compliance with laws, policies, and regulations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have performed analyses of budget compliance with legal, regulatory, and policy requirements for small organizations or simple programs.
 C. I have performed analyses of budget compliance with legal, regulatory, and policy requirements for large organizations or complex programs.
4. Indicate the extent of your experience identifying potential funding issues.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have identified regular and recurring funding issues, and have notified a supervisor or more senior individual of these issues.
 C. I have identified unusual or complex funding issues, summarized the issues, and briefed senior management on my findings.
 D. I have been the primary person responsible for reviewing funding for my organization, identifying actual and potential issues, and developing solutions to address the issues.
5. Indicate the extent of your experience developing budget policy and strategy for an organization.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have reviewed existing budget policy and strategy documents and recommended potential changes to a supervisor or more senior individual.
 C. I have drafted sections of a new budget policy or strategy for my organization.
 D. I have independently developed new budget policies and strategies for my organization.
6. Indicate the extent of your experience in assigning work to subordinates based on priorities, requirements of assignments, and capabilities of the employees.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assigned work to others as a team leader or project manager.
 C. I have had some experience in assigning work as an acting supervisor.
 D. I have had experience as a supervisor in assigning work to subordinates and adjusting those assignments based on changing priorities and demonstrated skills of employees.
 E. I have had experience as a second- or third-level supervisor in assigning program and project responsibilities to subordinate units.
7. Select the choice which best describes your experience in establishing and adjusting priorities for team and group projects.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have established priorities for a team or group project and I have made adjustments to accommodate unexpected changes in project resources or goals or unanticipated changes in the workplace.
 C. I have established simultaneous priorities for multiple projects involving multiple teams or groups and I have made adjustments to accommodate sudden major changes, problems, or setbacks.
8. Select the choice which best describes the extent of your experience in and responsibility for employee training.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have been responsible for providing informal on-the-job training to peers and subordinates.
 C. In addition to providing informal on-the-job training to peers and subordinates, I have been responsible for identifying subordinates' training needs and recommending different types of training.
 D. I have identified subordinates' training needs and ensured that the necessary development and/or training was provided to improve the efficiency and quality of the work directed.
9. Indicate the extent to which you have provided information to others on the parameters (that is, timelines, scope of work, budget considerations) of specific work assignments.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have provided basic direction to others primarily involving timelines and scope of work for routine work assignments.
 C. As a team leader, acting supervisor, or supervisor, I have provided timelines, scope of work, and budget considerations to others for moderately complex work assignments.
 D. As a supervisor or manager, I have provided extensive direction including timelines, scope of work, and budget considerations, to others on both routine and complex work assignments. I have then followed up to ensure progress toward goals.
10. Indicate the extent of your experience initiating and maintaining contacts/liaison with counterparts and colleagues.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had experience in establishing and maintaining contacts/liaison with colleagues within my organization.
 C. I have had experience in establishing and maintaining contacts/liaison with counterparts and colleagues at Federal, state, and local levels, as well as internal organizational components.
 D. I have had extensive experience in establishing and maintaining contacts/liaison with high-level counterparts at Federal, state, and local levels, as well as internal organizational components.
11. Indicate the extent of your experience in expressing facts and ideas in writing.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written short responses to routine requests for information.
 C. I have written portions of reports, information papers, and other documents (technical and non-technical).
 D. I have independently composed written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, and other complete documents based on study findings and results of analyses.
 E. I have independently completed written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, and other complete documents for internal organization and public use based on study findings and results of analyses. I have successfully tailored written information to the technical knowledge of my audience.
12. Select the choice which best describes your experience in responding to new information, changing conditions, or unexpected obstacles.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have adapted to minor or temporary changes affecting my own assignments or work schedule by rescheduling work or refocusing my efforts.
 C. I have reprioritized and rescheduled a significant amount of work to accommodate changes in resources or goals. I have recommended new methods in situations in which established procedures were unavailable or inapplicable.
 D. I have reprioritized virtually all work efforts and schedules to accommodate sudden major changes, problems, or setbacks. I have chosen or developed new methods in situations in which established procedures were unavailable or inapplicable.
13. Indicate the extent of your experience in developing, monitoring, or managing performance measurements to evaluate the effectiveness of operations or assist in program administration.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have made recommendations based on my evaluation of performance measurements used to determine the effectiveness of operations and/or program administration.
 C. I have developed performance measurements used to evaluate the effectiveness of operations and/or assist in program administration, and have monitored the use of these measurements.
 D. I have managed the development of performance measurements used to evaluate the effectiveness of operations and program administration, as well as the evaluation of operations and program administration.
14. Indicate the extent of your experience in planning and organizing work.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had limited experience in planning and organizing work for a small team.
 C. I have planned and organized the day-to-day work of my immediate work unit on a continuous basis.
 D. I have directed and overseen the mid- to long-range (i.e. quarterly or annual) planning and organization of work for my immediate work unit when there were complicating factors (e.g., conflicting priorities, work involving multiple disciplines).
 E. I have directed and overseen the planning and organization of work for a multi-unit organization. I established criteria and priorities and reviewed, amended, and consolidated work plans developed by subordinates.
15. Indicate the extent of your experience in translating goals into action plans.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have participated in a local process or project to identify action items that support established program goals.
 C. I have led a local process or project to establish action items that support established program goals.
 D. I have led a process or project for the conversion of agency goals to the action items for a principal organizational unit or equivalent.
 E. I have overseen a process or project for the conversion of agency goals to the action items for a principal organizational unit or equivalent. I have monitored the resulting action plans, made appropriate adjustments, and measured goal accomplishment.
16. Select the option that best describes your experience in making clear and convincing oral presentations to individuals or groups.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have answered questions from other employees about matters that are limited to a narrow range of routine topics and answered questions from peers requesting routine facts.
 C. I have given presentations or briefing reports to a variety of individuals with a similar level of technical expertise and organizational knowledge.
 D. I have presented and explained findings and approaches, provided and justified related recommendations in an efficient and effective manner, and addressed a wide variety of individuals with various levels of technical expertise and organizational knowledge in both scheduled and ad hoc settings.
17. Select the choice that best describes your ability to resolve conflicts as needed.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have conferred with others in my work unit on an individual basis to resolve work-related problems.
 C. I have communicated with others within my organization to resolve problems and prevent potential conflicts.
 D. I have communicated extensively with others within my organization to reach/build consensus on problems/issues that have arisen.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected