Position Title
ELECTRONIC INTEGRATED SYSTEMS MECHANIC SUPERVISOR
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
ID-12793987-AR-25-4040 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 4, 2025 to Sunday, September 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

All current (nationwide) federal employees.  Are you a current federal employee?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1 or 2).

 

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. US Citizens.  Are you a US Citizen?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current National Guard member within the state for which this position is being advertised?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Please answer the following questions.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Your resume must include start and end dates (MONTH AND YEAR) for each position listed to receive credit for specialized experience.

Examples:

From 2002 to 2004 I was a crew chief. (NO)

From Mar 2002 to Oct 2004 I served as the crew chief on a C-130 where I used testing equipment to troubleshoot malfunctions with systems. I repaired, maintained, serviced, inspected, and modified systems on the aircraft daily in the performance of my job. I use tech orders and manufacturers drawings and diagrams to determine proper maintenance procedures on assigned aircraft. (YES)

Does your resume reflect both month and year?


 A. Yes
 B. No
2. General Experience - An applicant must have a validated understanding of the basic principles and concepts of the occupational series and grade.

Specialized Experience - Experience that prepares the applicant to perform the duties of the position. The applicant's educational-degree study program or specific academic 
courses may substitute for some specialized experience. An applicant must demonstrate the identified specialized experience competencies (skills, knowledge, abilities and 
behaviors) to qualify for a FWS 2610 position as identified by its applicable grade.

Must have at least 36 months of specialized working experiences in performing, training and/or supervising assigned integrated systems repair and maintenance work operations. 
Must have working and training experiences in the maintenance, repair, and modification of integrated multi-complex avionics systems. Skilled in planning tasks for subordinate 
workers and expanded knowledge in using the equipment, facilities and materials. Skilled in meeting deadlines, in using time management to satisfy priorities and work assignments 
based on general work schedules, methods, and policies set by higher level supervisors. 

To ensure full credit is given for the qualification requirements you will need to be specific with your experience and write it in terms that the Human Resource Specialist can easily understand (please refrain from using acronyms).  Include both military and civilian experience (credit is applied for both your military and civilian jobs, except for overlapping periods).  Please include any MOS/AFSC that you hold/held and the dates they were obtained.

Do you meet these requirements and does your resume reflect the specialized experience listed above?

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. To be eligible for this position, you must currently hold a rank within the pay grades of E-7 through CW4.

Do you currently hold a rank within the pay grades provided?

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected