Position Title
Supervisory Emergency Management Specialist (Recovery)
Agency
Federal Emergency Management Agency
Announcement Number
BBR-12779630-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 14, 2025 to Wednesday, August 20, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)

Are you a current or former FEMA Stafford Act employee eligible under the Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)?

Current and former FEMA Stafford Act employees who can document 64 or more hours of paid time, per pay period, with no breaks in service* for 78 or more consecutive pay periods since August 1, 2014, are eligible to be considered for this Merit Promotion Job Opportunity Announcement. (*Note: A "break in service" is defined as 3 or more days in non-pay status, except as allowed under 5 CFR § 315.201(b)(3)(ii) for special circumstances such as military deployment, etc.).

To verify eligibility, you must submit: 
"Notice of DRRA Eligibility" provided by OCHCO.  If you believe you're eligible, but have not received your notice, please reach out to the HR Specialist listed in the announcement.
Your FEMA SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your appointment in the excepted service under the Stafford Act.  We recommend attaching a SF-50 which indicates your highest grade and step.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Current FEMA Employee

Are you a current FEMA employee who currently holds OR has previously held a permanent (not time limited) position in the competitive service?

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your permanent competitive status.  Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions.  You may need to submit more than one SF-50.  Your SF-50 must reflect:
Block 24 - Tenure:  1 - Permanent (career) or 2 - Conditional: AND
Block 34 - Position Occupied:  1 - Competitive Service
If you previously held a career or career conditional appointment, you must provide your current SF-50 and your SF-50 which shows competitive status eligibility.
Please do not submit an award SF-50, as it might not indicate your grade level and step.  
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. FEMA Employees Only Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)
Are you a current or former FEMA employee who is considered displaced or surplus (you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction in Force)?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, your most recent performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. How did you hear about this Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) job opportunity?
 A. USAJOBS
 B. FEMA's Social Media (Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Online Job board (Indeed, Zip Recruiter, etc.)
 D. FEMA.gov Careers Website
 E. FEMA Virtual Hiring Event
 F. FEMA On-Site Hiring Event
 G. College/University/Alumni Organization
 H. FEMA Employee Referral
 I. Other
2. Are you a retiree receiving a federal annuity (either military or civilian)? Or have you accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years? (Select all that apply.)
 A. Yes, I'm receiving a military annuity.
 B. Yes, I'm receiving a civilian annuity.
 C. Yes, I've received a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
 D. No, I am not receiving a federal annuity and have not accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
3. Are you a current FEMA employee?
 A. I'm a current FEMA Local Hire Employee
 B. I'm a current FEMA Reservist Employee
 C. I'm a current FEMA CORE Employee
 D. I'm a current FEMA PFT Employee
 E. I'm a current FEMA Senior Executive Service Employee
 F. I'm not a current FEMA Employee
4. Are you currently serving, or have served within the last five years, as a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) employee in the Executive Branch?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Please provide the following information regarding your political appointment(s): 1. Official Title of Position; 2. Type of Appointment (i.e. Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career SES); 3. Name of Agency; 4. Date Position began; and 5. Date Position ended. (NOTE: If you have never held a political appointment, please enter N/A.)
6. Within the past five years, have you received a buyout or payment through the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment Authority (VSIP) when separating from a federal position?
 A. No
 B. Yes, and I understand candidates who are reemployed with the federal government within five years after receiving a buyout or payment under VSIP are required to repay the entire amount of the incentive prior to their onboarding date.
7. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?

Select "Not Applicable" if this question does not apply to you.
 A. Yes
 B. No, but I have an exemption
 C. I am a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, and have NOT registered with the Selective Service System and do NOT have an exemption.
 D. Not Applicable
2. All FEMA employees are subject to 24-hour on-call in the event of an emergency and all Federal employees may be subject to emergency deployment. In the event of an emergency deployment, travel requirements may be extensive in nature (weeks to months), with little advance notice, and may require relocation to emergency sites, some of which are quite austere. The length of deployment may last anywhere from days to months, depending upon the nature of the emergency or disaster.

Every FEMA employee is considered an emergency manager and each employee has regular and recurring emergency management responsibilities, although not every position requires routine deployment to disaster sites. Your emergency management duties may vary depending on the needs of the Agency, your particular skills, and certain personal circumstances. All positions may require irregular work hours, work at locations other than the official duty station, and may include duties other than those specified in the employee's official position description.

Are you able to meet this commitment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

In order to be hired for this position, applicants must undergo and successfully pass a background investigation. This may include a review of financial issues, such as delinquency, child support and/or tax obligations, as well as certain criminal offenses and illegal use of or possession of drugs.

Are you willing to undergo a background investigation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Your responses to the questions below will be used in the evaluation of your qualifications for this position. Your resume and application materials must support the level of experience and/or education you claim in this questionnaire, if after a complete review of your application package, a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications, you may be rated ineligible for this position.
1. Do you have one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-13 level, as defined in the vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Please indicate where and when you obtained each of the specialized experience requirements listed in the Qualifications section of this Job Opportunity Announcement. Include in your response: (1) the area of specialized experience; (2) the place of employment; and, (3) the specific dates of employment the experience was gained in MM/DD/YYYY - MM/DD/YYYY format. Your response must be supported by your resume.

Example: Experience in developing and delivering presentations and training; ABC Company; 10/01/2016 - 05/15/2018.
3. Select the choice(s) below in which you have experience as it pertains to Public Assistance operational activities as it relates to addressing issues raised by Public Assistance staff from applicants, State, Territory or Tribal Nation. (Select all that apply)
 A. Address program issues raised by a 406 Hazard Mitigation Specialist,
 B. Address program issues raised by a an Insurance Specialist.
 C. Address program issues raised by a Debris Specialist.
 D. Address program issues raised by a PDA Specialist.
 E. Address program issues raised by an Estimating Specialist.
 F. Address program issues raised by an Environmental/Historic Specialist.
 G. None of the above.
4. Do you have at least one year of experience developing complex technical responses to program and engineering issues related to a Public Assistance Program?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Do you have at least one year of experience developing processes related to the Public Assistance Program?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Do you have at least one year of experience with the Public Assistance program including eligibility, and the new Public Assistance program?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Do you have at least one year of experience working within a Public Assistance Program?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Do you have experience with various Public Assistance operational activities?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience providing grants for public assistance or other disaster grant experience in response to an emergency management situation.
 A. I have worked on a team in a key role to assess and deliver grants.
 B. I have acted as the main point of contact (POC) responsible for assessing and delivering grants.
 C. I have led a team of emergency management personnel in assessing and delivering grants.
 D. I have provided feedback on emergency management policies and procedures.
 E. I have explained technical aspects of public assistance programs.
 F. I have developed and conducted training to educate people on public assistance programs.
 G. I have provided guidance to state, local, tribal and/or territorial officials on their public assistance eligibility.
 H. None of the above.
10. Choose all applicable statements that relate to your experience in communicating in writing. (Select all that apply)
 A. I have prepared written presentations of factual data and information.
 B. I have prepared reports that reflect my analysis and recommendations.
 C. I have prepared written products that are widely distributed within the agency or to limited external audiences.
 D. I have written clear and effective correspondence, reports, and other written materials for a specialized audience.
 E. I have written technical and non-technical reports and presented data and information to a full range of internal and external individuals or groups with varied levels of technical expertise.
 F. I have not performed any of the above tasks.
11. Choose all applicable statements that relate to your experience in communicating orally.
 A. I have participated in oral discussions in order to influence, motivate, question, or control persons or groups.
 B. I have had experience as a key management official in conferences, meetings, hearings, or presentations involving problems or issues of considerable consequence or importance.
 C. I have Demonstrated ability to communicate effectively with top management and organizations within the Agency concerning financial management priorities and matters and externally with OMB and Congress.
 D. I have successfully expressed ideas and facts clearly and logically to explain rules, regulations, or program requirements.
 E. I have prepared and presented directives and procedures concerning financial control of the organization.
 F. None of the above
12. Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material.
 A. I have written analytical reports for internal audiences.
 B. I have written analytical reports for external audiences.
 C. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad internal audience.
 D. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad external audience.
 E. I have written to defend a position and persuade a skeptical audience.
 F. I have prepared and presented issue papers and/or briefings to program personnel, subject-matter groups and/or management officials at all levels.
 G. I have reviewed and edited reports for accuracy, grammar, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences.
 H. None of the above.
13. From the following choices, identify those that reflect your experience in the area of customer service.
 A. Coordinated/conducted meetings with managers and staff to ensure customers’ needs are met.
 B. Evaluated and modified the services to improve and ensure quality customer service.
 C. Directly investigated and resolved customer issues.
 D. Provided customer service that was favorably recognized by a colleague, supervisor, or customer.
 E. None of the above.
14. Select all of the following responses that describe your customer service experience:
 A. Identified and documented issues for future resolution.
 B. Mediated customer complaints.
 C. Provided customer feedback on work products.
 D. Provided guidance and direction on specific organizational areas.
 E. None of the above.
15. Do you have experience representing your Agency/organization in emergency situations that has reflected positively on the Agency/organization?
 A. Yes
 B. No
16. Do you have experience representing your organization to external audiences?
 A. Yes
 B. No
17. From the list below, select statement(s) that describe(s) your experience representing your agency or organization.
 A. I have represented my organization to external audiences.
 B. I have liaised with government representatives of various levels of authority from outside of your organization to exchange information.
 C. None of the above.
18. Do you have experience managing multiple assignments, conflicting priorities, and multi-tasking all while maintaining good customer service and meeting various deadlines?
 A. Yes
 B. No
19. Choose the response(s) that best describe(s) your experience working on a team or as a team leader. (Select all that apply.)
 A. I monitored the performance and/or implementation of projects/studies as a team member.
 B. I monitored the performance and/or implementation of projects/studies as a team leader.
 C. None of the above.
20. Do you have at least one year of experience providing guidance and oversight to a multi-disciplinary team?
 A. Yes
 B. No
21. Are you now or have you served as a team leader or supervisor?
 A. Created a culture that fosters high standards of ethics
 B. Developed strategies to maximize employee potential
 C. Resolved conflicts
 D. Motivated employees
 E. Recognized staff contributions
 F. None of the above
22. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describes the leadership roles you have held.
 A. I have led a project team.
 B. I have temporarily served as an acting supervisor while my supervisor was unavailable.
 C. I have served as the official supervisor of a work unit or department.
 D. I have served as the official supervisor of multiple work units or departments.
 E. None of the above.
23. Select all responses that apply to your supervisory and/or leadership experience.
 A. Establishes guidelines, sets goals and performance expectations for staff members, evaluating performance and communicating any deficiencies.
 B. Models high standards of honesty, integrity, trust, openness and respect for others by applying these values to daily behaviors.
 C. Blends people into teams when needed; creates strong morale and spirit within the team; motivates staff.
 D. None of the above.
24. Do you have experience establishing work assignments and setting priorities?
 A. Yes
 B. No
25. Do you have experience establishing work assignments and setting priorties for subordinate staff members?
 A. Yes
 B. No
26. Do you possess experience planning, assigning and/or establishing work priorities for a staff?
 A. Yes
 B. No
27. Please take this opportunity to review your question responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you understand this statement, have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected