Position Title
PHYSICAL SCIENTIST
Agency
Defense Threat Reduction Agency
Announcement Number
DTRA-25-12780496-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 11, 2025 to Monday, August 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions and you:
• have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more OR
• retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more?

If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. Please also provide your disability letter which includes the combined service connected disability percentage rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15((SF-15 (PDF file)).  .

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a position with higher graded promotional potential than previously held?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for Schedule A Disability appointments?

If eligible, provide proof of disability with appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

For more information, review https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/individuals-with-disabilities
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. .

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and are applying a for a promotion?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).



 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and have held a position at or above the target grade for this position?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).


 A. Yes
 B. No
15. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
are entitled to veterans preference?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
14
15
Assessment 1
1. The purpose of this question is to verify that you meet the Individual Occupational Requirements for this position. Please select the answer that best describes your situation. All education must have been received from an accredited college or university. FAILURE TO ANSWER THIS QUESTION WILL MAKE YOU INELIGIBLE.
 A. I possess Bachelor's degree in physical science, engineering, or mathematics that included 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science such as mechanics, dynamics, properties of materials, and electronics.
 B. I possess a combination of education and experience -- education equivalent to one of the majors shown in A above that included at least 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 C. My education/experience does not meet the basic requirements listed above.
2. From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for position of PHYSICAL SCIENTIST, GS-1301-14/15. Read all the statements completely before making your selection.

 A. GS-14: I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Experience in briefing and providing recommendations to senior leaders, and in participating in international, interagency, or DoD fora. Expert knowledge and extensive experience in project planning, acquisition, and project management of a procurement, operations and maintenance, or, research and development portfolio comprised of several projects executed by several performers. Experience in providing direction and managing contractors' performance in accordance with contractual quality assurance and funding expenditure requirements. Experience in leading teams of technical or operational personnel, and experience in nuclear/chemical explosion or earthquake monitoring and detection technologies, modeling and simulation, and artificial intelligence / machine language.
 B. GS-15: I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Extensive experience in analysis of trends, gaps, systems as well as strategy and long-range plan development and implementation. Extensive experience in briefing and providing recommendations to senior leaders, and in initiating, leading, and representing your organization at international, interagency, or DoD fora. Knowledge and extensive experience in the initiation, planning, technical direction and management, and fiscal control of procurement, operations and maintenance, or research and development efforts comprised of multiple complex projects executed by multiple performers. Extensive experience in providing direction and managing contractors' performance in accordance with contractual quality assurance and funding expenditure requirements. Extensive experience in forming and leading teams of technical or operational personnel, and experience in nuclear/chemical explosion or earthquake monitoring and detection technologies, modeling and simulation, and artificial intelligence / machine language.
 C. I do not possess the required level of specialized experience and/or education to qualify for this position.
3. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience with analyzing strategic trends and gaps.
 A. I do not have experience analyzing strategic trends and gaps.
 B. I know how to analyze strategic trends and gaps but have no practical experience doing so.
 C. I have limited experience and limited skills with analyzing strategic trends and gaps.
 D. I have extensive experience and am skilled at analyzing strategic trends and gaps.
4. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience with developing long-range (next ten years) strategies.
 A. I do not have experience developing long-range (next ten years) strategies.
 B. I know how to develop long-range (next ten years) strategies but have no practical experience doing so.
 C. I have limited experience and limited skills at developing long-range (next ten years) strategies.
 D. I have extensive experience and am skilled with developing long-range (next ten years) strategies.
5. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience with developing long-range (next five years) plans.
 A. I do not have experience developing long-range (next five years) plans.
 B. I know how to develop long-range (next five years) plans but have no practical experience doing so.
 C. I have limited experience and limited skills with developing long-range (next five years) plans.
 D. I have extensive experience and am skilled at developing long-range (next five years) plans.
6. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience with advising senior leaders to gain their advocacy for technology- or operational-based programs.
 A. I do not have experience advising senior leaders to gain their advocacy for technology- or operational-based programs.
 B. I know how to advise senior-leader decision makers to gain their advocacy for technology or operational programs, but I have no substantial, practical experience doing so.
 C. I have limited experience and limited skills to advise senior-leader decision makers to gain their advocacy for technology or operational programs.
 D. I have extensive experience and am skilled at advising senior-leader decision makers to gain their advocacy for technology or operational programs.
7. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience with providing advice or coordinating with international stakeholders to gain their advocacy for technology or operational programs.
 A. I do not have experience providing advice or coordinating with international stakeholders to gain their advocacy for technology or operational programs.
 B. I know how to provide advice or coordinate with international stakeholders to gain their advocacy for technology or operational programs, but I have no practical experience doing so.
 C. I have limited experience and limited skills to providing advice or coordinating with international stakeholders to gain their advocacy for technology or operational programs.
 D. I have extensive experience and am skilled in providing advice or coordinating with international stakeholders to gain their advocacy for technology or operational programs.
8. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience with providing advice or coordinating with interagency stakeholders to gain their advocacy for technology or operational programs.
 A. I do not have experience providing advice or coordinating with interagency stakeholders to gain their advocacy for technology or operational programs.
 B. I know how to provide advice or coordinate with international stakeholders to gain their advocacy for technology or operational programs, but I have no substantial, practical experience doing so.
 C. I have limited experience and limited skills to provide advice or coordinate with international stakeholders to gain their advocacy for technology or operational programs.
 D. I have extensive experience and am skilled in providing advice or coordinating with interagency stakeholders to gain their advocacy for technology or operational programs.
9. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience with guiding programs/portfolios composed of several research and development or operational projects.

 A. I have extensive experience guiding programs/portfolios composed of several research and development or operational projects.
 B. I have limited experience guiding programs/portfolios composed of several research and development or operational projects.
 C. I have very little experience guiding programs/portfolios composed of several research and development or operational projects.
 D. None of the above.
10. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience with initiating new programs/portfolios composed of several research and development or operational projects.

 A. I have extensive experience initiating new programs/portfolios composed of several research and development or operational projects.
 B. I have limited experience initiating new programs/portfolios composed of several research and development or operational projects.
 C. I have very little experience initiating new programs/portfolios composed of guiding research and development projects or operations projects.
 D. None of the above.
11. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience with initiating new research and development or operational projects.

 A. I have extensive experience initiating new research and development or operational projects.
 B. I have limited experience initiating new research and development or operational projects.
 C. I have very little experience initiating new research and development or operational projects.
 D. None of the above.
12. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience with assessing contractor's performance in accordance with DTRA and DoD requirements.

 A. I have extensive experience assessing contractor’s performance in accordance with DTRA and DoD requirements.
 B. I have limited experience assessing contractor’s performance in accordance with DTRA and DoD requirements.
 C. I have very little experience assessing contractor’s performance in accordance with DTRA and DoD requirements.
 D. None of the above.
13. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience with maintaining quality control of all contract actions to ensure documents meet federal requirements.

 A. I have extensive experience maintaining quality control of all contract actions to ensure documents meet federal requirements.
 B. I have limited experience maintaining quality control of all contract actions to ensure documents meet federal requirements.
 C. I have very little experience maintaining quality control of all contract actions to ensure documents meet federal requirements.
 D. None of the above.
14. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience with procurement of goods/services that results in a contract being let.

 A. I have extensive experience establishing the procurement of goods/services and completing acquisition actions required for a contract to be let.
 B. I have limited experience establishing the procurement of goods/services and completing acquisition actions required for a contract to be let.
 C. I have very little experience establishing the procurement of goods/services and completing acquisition actions required for a contract to be let.
 D. None of the above.
15. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience with developing a (budget-allocation) spend plan.

 A. I have extensive experience with developing a (budget-allocation) spend plan.
 B. I have limited experience with developing a (budget-allocation) spend plan.
 C. I have very little experience with developing a (budget-allocation) spend plan.
 D. None of the above.
16. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience leading team members in developing technical or programmatic performance objectives for program plans.

 A. I have extensive experience leading teams of technical personnel, operational personnel, and/or program managers in developing technical or programmatic performance objectives for components of those plans.
 B. I have a limited range of experience in leading teams of technical personnel, operational personnel, and/or program managers in the development of technical or programmatic performance objectives for components of those plans.
 C. I have little to no experience leading teams of technical personnel, operational personnel, and/or program managers in the development of technical or programmatic performance objectives for components of those plans.
 D. None of the above.
17. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience leading team members through distribution and balances of assignments, in accordance with established workflow and skill level.

 A. I have extensive experience leading team members through distribution and balances of assignments, in accordance with established workflow and skill level.
 B. I have a limited range of experience leading team members through distribution and balances of assignments, in accordance with established workflow and skill level.
 C. I have little to no experience leading team members through distribution and balances of assignments, in accordance with established workflow and skill level.
 D. None of the above.
18. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience initiating or leading technical discussions with stakeholders within external organizations on solving major nuclear research or operational issues.

 A. I have extensive experience initiating or leading technical discussions with stakeholders within external organizations on solving major nuclear research or operational issues.
 B. I have a limited range of experience initiating or leading technical discussions with stakeholders within external organizations on solving major nuclear research or operational issues.
 C. I have little to no experience initiating or leading technical discussions with stakeholders within external organizations on solving major nuclear research or operational issues.
 D. None of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected