Position Title
Human Resources Specialist (Employee / Labor Relations)
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
25-DO-12753170 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 7, 2025 to Monday, July 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current Treasury Department employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current Treasury employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current Treasury employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current Department of Treasury employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Kansas City, MO
 C. Brookhaven, NY
 D. Philadelphia, PA
 E. Memphis, TN
 F. Austin, TX
 G. Ogden, UT
 H. Parkersburg, WV
2. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other
4. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
5. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
7. Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.
8. Which of the following describes your eligibility for this announcement?
 A. I am a current permanent Department of Treasury employee with competitive status.
 B. I am a Department of Treasury employee serving on a Veterans' Recruitment Appointment (VRA).
 C. I am an individual eligible for the Department of Treasury Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP).
 D. I do not meet any of the above criteria.
9. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Specialized experience for GS-14: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as proven proficiency and supportable (as evidenced in the resume) experience in ALL of the following:
-Advising on performance and conduct related employee issues; AND
-Researching and applying case law; AND
-Advising and supporting management in collective bargaining activities including interpreting collective bargaining agreements, negotiation strategies and third party disputes(mediation and arbitration); AND
-Drafting Department-wide or bureau-wide employee relations or performance management policies and guidance.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you meet the specialized experience statement as stated in the vacancy announcement? 
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Please indicate in which position(s)/location in your resume this information can be found. (limit 250 characters)
3. Select the statement(s) that describe communication skills regularly used on the job.
 A. Communicated ER/LR or performance management subject matter to executives and union leadership.
 B. Communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis.
 C. Persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take a particular course of action.
 D. Interviewed line staff and managers to acquire specific information regarding employment matters.
 E. Conducted training sessions for audiences with varying comprehension and attitudes.
 F. Conducted briefings on controversial issues.
 G. None of the above.
4. When dealing with a difficult customer in an emotionally charged situation, please select the response that best describes your most frequent response.
 A. I independently determine appropriate action after reviewing a variety of factors, such as the nature and scope of the problem.
 B. I assess the situation, attempt to resolve the issue by eliciting information. I refer the issue to a senior employee or supervisor with a brief chronology of the situation.
 C. I provide basic information to the customer, seeking to identify the nature of the issue, then refer the problem or situation to a senior employee or supervisor.
 D. None of the above.
5. The work of this position involves managing multiple assignments with conflicting priorities and deadlines, while maintaining customer service requirements. I have experience in the following:
 A. Managing multiple assignments concurrently, while maintaining customer service focus, and meeting competing deadlines.
 B. Providing regular updates to customers to manage expectations concerning project status.
 C. Identifying barriers to completion of assignment by deadline and adjusting plans accordingly.
 D. None of the above.
6. Choose the situations in which you have served as the agency representative.
 A. Arbitration hearings.
 B. Term or mid-term bargaining with a labor union.
 C. Impact and Implementation bargaining with a labor union.
 D. Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB) hearings.
 E. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) hearings.
 F. Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS) proceedings.
 G. Federal Labor Relations Authority (FLRA) proceedings.
 H. Federal Services Impasse Panel (FSIP) proceedings.
 I. Internal agency meetings.
 J. None of the above.
7. Choose the statement that best describes your experience as it relates to independently developing and providing formal training sessions to senior managers.
 A. I have not had education/training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education/training in this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task as a co-presenter on the job with close supervision.
 D. I have performed this task in a lead capacity as a regular part of the job independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
8. Indicate which of the following guidelines you have utilized to resolve a work issue. Please indicate the listed guidelines only if you yourself searched through the source of information to find an answer. For instance, do not count the Federal case law unless you yourself have actually looked through a group or database of case decisions to find the one(s) applicable to your issue.
 A. Code of Federal Regulations (CFR)
 B. United States Code (USC)
 C. NFC manuals and reference guides
 D. Office of Personnel Management guidelines
 E. Other Federal guidelines
 F. Federal case law (e.g., MSPB, EEO, FLRA)
 G. Agency regulations and policy
 H. Collective bargaining unit agreements
 I. None of the above
9. Please describe the most complex performance management or conduct-related employee issue for which you have provided advice or guidance to a manager. (limit 250 characters)
10. Please indicate which of the following written products you have produced as a regular part of your job in a human resources environment.
 A. I have written issue papers or position papers, including analyses and recommendations, on significant and complex HR issues.
 B. I have written my agency's responses or requests to OPM, or other third-parties (for example, testimony or responses to litigation) on complex HR topics.
 C. I have written presentation or briefing materials, including "talking points" for senior officials, on complex HR topics.
 D. I have written HR policies and agency-wide guidelines.
 E. I have reviewed written material, and suggested improvements for technical accuracy, adherence to regulation, organization of material, clarity of expression and appropriateness for intended audiences.
 F. None of the above.
11. Select the statement that best describes your experience developing, implementing and interpreting comprehensive HR policies.
 A. I have experience providing expert technical advice and recommendations to management and/or other key officials on human capital policy initiatives.
 B. I have experience as a technical expert formulating policies, plans and procedures in multiple HR functional areas (e.g., identified changes needed to current policies and procedures to improve effectiveness).
 C. I have directed and led a project or program that had a significant effect on the human resources programs in a large organizational element comparable to a major Federal agency, department or organization.
 D. None of the above.
12. This position requires aiding a variety of people with new or difficult concepts and technical issues. Please choose the statement(s) that describe services you have provided on a regular basis.
 A. Facilitating communications and activities between organizational entities
 B. Negotiating policy changes
 C. Mediating or facilitating problem resolution
 D. Briefing senior management on complex HR topics
 E. Independently planning, hosting, and conducting meetings
 F. Being regularly consulted by others on technical and programmatic issues
 G. Serving as an active participant on committees or task forces on technical and programmatic issues
 H. Serving as authoritative spokesperson for the organization on complex or controversial issues, e.g., in meetings with top agency officials or OPM (Office of Personnel Management)
 I. None of the above
13. Select the response(s) that describe(s) your experience(s) locating and compiling information:
 A. Gathering materials to be routed for information or distributed at recurring meetings
 B. Compiling factual information from sources within assigned work area and presenting the information in a logical fashion.
 C. Collecting and retrieving information from various sources within the division or larger organization. Compiling relevant information and presenting it in a logical format that allows for ease of interpretation by others.
 D. I do not have any experience as described in the choices above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
14. Do you have demonstrated experience in evaluating the content of new legislation to determine the impact on agency programs and developing recommendations for program revisions based on that analysis?
 A. Yes
 B. No
15. Please list the job title and dates of employment listed in your resume where this experience can be found. (limit 250 characters)
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected