Position Title
Occupational Therapist
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJG250526467679HW Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 10, 2025 to Friday, September 19, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.
1. Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. This position requires regular contact with children under the age 18 and a favorable determination of suitability to do so. Are you willing to undergo a specific initial background checks, investigation and periodic re-verification check of multiple agency records to obtain and maintain a suitable determination to occupy a position having regular contact with children?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. This position has a requirement to lift up to 40 lbs. in the regular performance of duties. Are you willing and able to meet the lifting requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 15% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 15% of the time?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Employees assigned to a medical treatment facility are required to be screened for applicable immunizations or pre-existing immunity based on occupational risk, regardless of job series. This position is subject to screening and update of required immunizations unless exempted for medical or administrative reasons in accordance with Army Regulation 40-562, Chapters 3 and 4. A job offer to an applicant who is not a current employee subject to this requirement will be withdrawn if the candidate refuses to undergo immunization screening. Are you willing to consent to immunization screening and receive missing immunizations or submit required documentation to request exemption?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. This position has a mandatory seasonal influenza vaccination requirement and is subject to annual vaccination. A candidate tentatively selected for appointment to this position will be required to sign a statement consenting to annual seasonal influenza vaccination. A job offer to an applicant who is not a current employee subject to this requirement will be withdrawn if the candidate refuses to agree to undergo seasonal influenza vaccinations for other than medical or religious reasons. Such reasons must be supported by an acceptable statement from a credible, verifiable source. Are you willing to consent to, and receive seasonal influenza vaccinations or submit required documentation to request exemption?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Occupational Therapist position with the Defense Health Agency. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you meet the basic eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1. Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Occupational Therapist at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 A. I have a graduate (or higher level) degree that included (1) an occupational therapy curriculum approved by the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE) or a professional accrediting organization recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained; and (2) completion of the clinical requirements prescribed by the school. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 B. I do not meet the basic requirement above. However, I am a current federal employee occupying a position in the 0631 occupational series and have been continuously employed in this occupational series since September 27, 2017 or before. (Note: You will be required to provide appropriate documentation to the respective Human Resources Office to validate your status.)
 C. I do not possess the education described above.
2. The Occupational Therapist occupation requires successful completion of the national examination administered by the National Board for Certification in Occupational Therapy (NBCOT). Have you passed the national examination administered by the National Board for Certification in Occupational Therapy (NBCOT)? (Note: You must attach a copy of your active certification.)
 A. Yes.
 B. I do not meet the basic requirement above. However, I am a current federal employee occupying a position in the 0631 occupational series and have been continuously employed in this occupational series since September 27, 2017 or before. (Note: You will be required to provide appropriate documentation to the respective Human Resources Office to validate your status.
 C. No.
3. Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Occupational Therapist at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes: Providing all early intervention and school-based services to children inclusive of service coordination, assessment to treatment following a parent coaching model; serving as a service coordinator for families; attending meetings and writing Individualized Education Program (IEP) treatment in school-based model.
 B. My experience is not reflected in the above statement.
4. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected