Position Title
Audiologist (Clinical Specialist)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTB-1279528-25-LN Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 15, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
2. Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
3. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
BASIC REQUIREMENTS
1.
Have you earned a Doctor of Audiology (AUD) from an audiology program recognized by the Accreditation Commission for Audiology Education (ACAE) or Council on Academic Accreditation (CAA) of the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA)?
OR
Other doctoral degree in hearing science or a directly related field from an institution accredited by an accrediting institution recognized by the U.S. Department of Education?NOTE: Effective January 1, 2007, The CAA in Audiology and Speech Language Pathology of ASHA accredits only doctoral degree or AUD programs in audiology.

Foreign Education. To be creditable, education completed outside the U.S. must have been submitted to a private organization specializing in the interpretation of foreign educational credentials.  Such education must have been deemed at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. programs.  For foreign medical graduates, we must verify with the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMG) that the applicant has met requirements for certification, and must obtain a copy of the ECFMG certificate, if claimed.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2.
Do you possess a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice audiology at the doctoral level in a United States state, territory, commonwealth, or the District of Columbia?

Note: All audiologists who perform compensation and pension examinations, perform direct patient care duties, must possess a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice audiology and must meet the experience requirements.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.
GS-13 Audiologist (Clinical Specialist) Experience Requirement: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, to qualify for the GS-13 do you possess at least 2 years of experience as an Audiologist (Clinical Specialist) equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-12) which demonstrates the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities?Experience. At least two years of experience as a professional audiologist, with at least one year comparable to the next lower grade level.
Advanced knowledge in a focused area of contemporary audiology practice to provide oversight of a specialty program.
Skill to evaluate the specialty program to ensure deadlines and goals are met.
Skill to coordinate initiatives and build consensus among interdisciplinary team members. 
Ability to monitor and report on work progress in the specialty program to adjust workload and processes.
Ability to serve as the SME and provide education relating to the specialty program. 
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Audiologist (Clinical Specialist) position within the VA Augusta Health Care System/Audiology and Speech Pathology Service.  The following assessment questionnaire is used to determine your eligibility for appointment in the Federal Government, and your eligibility for referral consideration.  Please select the most appropriate response to each of the following questions.  Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy, and to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position.  Failure to claim at least one eligibility will result in an ineligible rating.  Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities.  We will not make assumptions and are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list.  Please make sure to review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1. Have you earned a Doctor of Audiology (AUD) from an audiology program recognized by the Accreditation Commission for Audiology Education (ACAE) or Council on Academic Accreditation (CAA) of the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA)?
OR
Other doctoral degree in hearing science or a directly related field from an institution accredited by an accrediting institution recognized by the U.S. Department of Education?

NOTE: Effective January 1, 2007, The CAA in Audiology and Speech Language Pathology of ASHA accredits only doctoral degree or AUD programs in audiology.

Foreign Education. To be creditable, education completed outside the U.S. must have been submitted to a private organization specializing in the interpretation of foreign educational credentials.  Such education must have been deemed at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. programs.  For foreign medical graduates, we must verify with the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMG) that the applicant has met requirements for certification, and must obtain a copy of the ECFMG certificate, if claimed.
 A. Yes, I meet the above education requirements.
 B. No, I do not meet the above education requirements.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. Do you possess a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice audiology at the doctoral level in a United States state, territory, commonwealth, or the District of Columbia?

Note: All audiologists who perform compensation and pension examinations, perform direct patient care duties, must possess a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice audiology and must meet the experience requirements.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. GS-13 Audiologist (Clinical Specialist) Experience Requirement: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, to qualify for the GS-13 do you possess at least 2 years of experience as an Audiologist (Clinical Specialist) equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-12) which demonstrates the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities?

Experience. At least two years of experience as a professional audiologist, with at least one year comparable to the next lower grade level.
Advanced knowledge in a focused area of contemporary audiology practice to provide oversight of a specialty program.
Skill to evaluate the specialty program to ensure deadlines and goals are met.
Skill to coordinate initiatives and build consensus among interdisciplinary team members. 
Ability to monitor and report on work progress in the specialty program to adjust workload and processes.
Ability to serve as the SME and provide education relating to the specialty program. 
 A. Yes
 B. No
*** Application Package Notification & Important Information ***

We appreciate your interest in available positions.  It is our goal to forward every eligible and qualified candidate for consideration.

Due to the nature of our systems, it is imperative that your application package be accurate and complete.  Therefore, prior to finalizing your application package and submitting for consideration:
Ensure all documents are appropriately selected, are legible, and have uploaded successfully (we recommend viewing them a second time to ensure no errors have occurred in the process).  Missing documents may cause your application package to be ineligible for consideration.
Ensure that all responses to the assessment questions are accurate and correctly reflect your current situation.  Question responses are used in determining if you meet specific eligibility and qualification requirements.
Please Note: Until the closing date of the announcement, you can update or edit your package.  However, once your application package is submitted and the announcement period closes, we are unable to add documentation or alter your responses.  By submitting your application package for consideration, you are attesting that your application package is complete and accurate.

Some helpful tips:
*Resume- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities required for the position)
Month & Year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2020)
Grade Level (for federal positions)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week).
*Education- If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
*Current or former VA or Federal Employees - You must submit a copy of a current and/or highest grade held SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action (not an award SF50)
*Proof of current certification, licensure, or registration (if applicable).
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected