Position Title
Supvsy Intelligence Operations Spec
Agency
Office of the Chief Administrative Officer
Announcement Number
25-HUD-12787458 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 27, 2025 to Wednesday, September 10, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency covered by an OPM Interchange agreement that conveys noncompetitive eligibility?

For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=InterchangeAgreementsWithOtherMeritSystems

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following merit promotion categories?
Current Federal civilian employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current Excepted service employee covered by an Interchange Agreement
Former Federal employee with Reinstatement eligibility
Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA)
Current Federal employee serving on a VRA appointment
Land Management Employee eligible under Public Law 114-47
Other competitive category not listed above (you must submit proof of eligibility)
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you eligible to be appointed under the Military Spouse Noncompetitive Appointing Authority based on any of the following categories?
You are the spouse of an active duty member of the Armed Forces.
You are the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs.
You are the widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status, and you have not re-married.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources. (https://www.usajobs.gov/Veterans)

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a former federal employee that has been separated for at least one full year and is eligible to be non-competitively reinstated to a higher grade or full-performance level than which you left federal employment?
(Note: you MUST provide:  1) a copy of your separation SF-50 (the "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2"); AND 2) the last performance appraisal you received from your federal employment which shows at least a fully successful rating.)

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Do you currently hold (or have you previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you eligible under any other miscellaneous appointing authority not listed thus far, such as (but not all inclusive to):
Postal Career Service Employee;
Postal Rate Commission Employee;
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; 
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee; or 
Foreign overseas employee or eligible family member of former overseas employee
 For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=MiscellaneousAuthoritiesNotRegulated .  To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

For more information on Foreign overseas employment please review the following: https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#NontemporaryForeignService or https://www.state.gov/global-community-liaison-office/family-member-employment/family-member-employment-in-the-d-c-area/non-competitive-eligibility-nce/#NCE5
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you eligible for consideration as a Peace Corps, VISTA, or Action volunteer?  If you select this option, you are required to provide acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility by submitting proof of employment from the appropriate agency with your completed application.
National Service (Peace Corps and VISTA)

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
3. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
5. I am interested in having my application shared with other HUD hiring managers. I understand that electing this option will not impact my chances of selection from this vacancy announcement and does not guarantee that a similar vacancy announcement will be opened by another hiring manager for which I can be considered or selected. Please select one or more of the following HUD Program Offices that you authorize to receive your application information. If you do not wish for your application to be shared, please select "Please do not share my application information with other HUD hiring managers.
 A. Center for Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships
 B. Congressional/Intergovernmental Relations
 C. Ginnie Mae (GNMA)
 D. Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration
 E. Office of the Chief Financial Officer (OCFO)
 F. Office of the Chief Human Capital Officer (OCHCO)
 G. Office of the Chief Information Officer (OCIO)
 H. Office of the Chief Procurement Officer (OCPO)
 I. Office of Community Planning and Development (CPD)
 J. Office of Departmental Equal Employment Opportunity (ODEEO)
 K. Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity (FHEO)
 L. Office of Field Policy and Management (FPM)
 M. Office of General Counsel (OGC)
 N. Office of Housing
 O. Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes (OLHCHH)
 P. Office of Policy Development and Research (PD&R)
 Q. Office of Public Affairs (OPA)
 R. Office of the Secretary
 S. Public and Indian Housing (PIH)
 T. Please do not share my application information with other HUD hiring managers.
6. How did you find out about this position?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other
7. Please provide any specifics on your response(s) above.
Performance Appraisal
1. As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of all pages of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal, dated within the last 12 months, that includes the final rating. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these specific requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so in the next question. If you do not provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application, you will need to provide a reason in the text box below.

(Note: If you answer "NO" to this question, you must provide a reason as to why you were not able to provide a performance appraisal in the text box of the following question)

Have you submitted a copy of all pages of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal, dated within the last 12 months, that includes the final rating?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. If you answered "NO" to the previous question, please provide a reason as to why you were not able to provide a performance appraisal in the text box below.
Assessment 1
Specialized experience for the GS-14 position is defined as one year at the GS-13 level, or equivalent, that is directly related to the position, and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of this position. Specialized experience is defined as:

-Leading intelligence and insider risk programs, including analyzing raw and finished intelligence, conducting threat assessments, and using tools like User Activity Monitoring (UAM) to identify anomalous behavior; AND
-Collecting and evaluating sensitive data from multiple sources to support incident response and inform operational decisions; AND
-Developing and implementing national security and emergency management policies, plans, and risk assessments; AND
-Leading various teams supporting intelligence and crisis response functions, aligning activities with mission objectives and federal requirements.
1. Select the answer that best describes your experience as it directly relates to the specialized experience statement. Carefully review your application and ensure that your response is supported by your resume.
 A. I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.
 B. I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.
2. Make sure experience is clearly documented in your resume. Please give the dates/resume reference when you gained this experience so it may be found to ensure you receive proper credit. (limit 250 characters)
3. What is your level of experience providing situational awareness, assessment, and strategic decision support to senior leaders collecting, analyzing, and reporting on continuing and upcoming incidents or events?
 A. I do not have education, training or experience in performing this task
 B. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee
 C. I have independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee
 D. I have trained others on situational awareness and assessments in this activity and/or others have consulted me for assistance
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. I have experience critically reviewing information to determine the quality of the information and to identify additional information that is needed.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. This experience must be clearly documented in your resume. Indicate where we can find it to ensure you receive proper credit. (limit 250 characters)
6. Select all of the following functions you have performed that demonstrate critical thinking/problem solving skills.
 A. Identified and analyzed problems; distinguished between relevant and irrelevant information to make rational decisions
 B. Developed policies, procedures, and plans for meeting the organizational goals and objectives
 C. Evaluated and modified services and products to improve and ensure quality and cost effectiveness of customer service
 D. Utilized metrics, data, and analysis to ensure timely and accurate actions
 E. Prepared and presented analytical information to senior management officials within the organization. These analyses are used to explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings and recommendations
 F. None of the above
7. Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of managerial/supervisory experience.
 A. I have experience serving as a Team/Project Leader with responsibility for communicating goals and priorities, developing assignments, establishing deadlines, providing feedback and coaching, and ensuring that completed assignments meet established standards and program requirements
 B. I have experience providing direction and supervision to a staff of journeyman-level personnel which included responsibility for establishing performance standards, expectations, and deadlines, prioritizing work, resolving conflicts and complaints, managing workload distribution, reviewing and approving completed assignments, evaluating performance, recruiting and hiring, and promoting EEO principles and practices
 C. I have executive managerial experience with responsibility for establishing and reinforcing broad organizational goals, vision, and program priorities ensuring that sound strategic and operational plans are established, including multi-year planning, enforcing accountability for organizational performance, and enlisting support and buy-in from external parties for the organization's programs
 D. None of the above
8. Choose the statements that describe your experience in conducting analyses of processes to increase insider threat program effectiveness. (Check all that Apply)
 A. Communication support
 B. Recommends development of methods and approaches for gathering data/projects
 C. Analytical techniques to review data plan and/or processes
 D. Development of recommendations
 E. Implementation and follow through of recommendations
 F. None of the above
9. Which of the following best describes your experience managing projects related to the detection of potential insider threats?
 A. I have experience managing technical projects, such as deploying audit and monitoring tools to new networks, in support of the insider threat detection mission
 B. I have experience supporting technical projects for a mission area other than insider threat detection
 C. I have experience managing non-technical projects, such as developing a new analytical method or process, in support of the insider threat detection mission
 D. I have experience supporting a project manager in the completion of insider threat detection projects, technical or non-technical
 E. I have experience managing technical and non-technical projects in support of the insider threat detection mission
 F. None of the above
10. Which of the following best describes your experience evaluating the effectiveness of insider threat program processes and recommending improvements?
 A. I have evaluated the effectiveness of insider threat program processes or operations and recommended improvements to the program manager
 B. I have evaluated insider threat programs at the highest level and provided remedial actions and suggestions to the senior officia have participated in meetings to discuss insider threat issues, present findings, and provide solutions
 C. I have participated in meetings to discuss insider threat issues, present findings, and provide solutions
 D. None of the above
11. Select from the list below the experience you have implementing a standardized analytic intelligence product line, processes or methodologies conducting research, employing a variety of data-driven analysis techniques, and communicating findings to a broad customer base. (Check all that Apply)
 A. Preparing factual intelligence reports in a clear, concise manner
 B. Synopsizing research materials
 C. Researching and extracting relevant information from multiple intelligence sources
 D. Extracting and compiling numerical or statistical data
 E. Illustrating connections of a network using financial intelligence
 F. Evaluating the validity of sources
 G. Gathering, comparing, and contrasting data from multiple sources
 H. Using analytical tools on large data sets
 I. Identifying information gaps and anomalies
 J. Editing written intelligence products to meet expected standards
 K. Preparing and delivering briefings tailored to the audience
 L. None of the above
12. Which of the following statements best describes your experience interfacing and sharing Counterintelligence/insider threat-related information with external agencies in a collaborative environment?
 A. I have independently interfaced and shared insider threat information with entities such as Intelligence Community agencies in a collaborative environment
 B. I have interfaced and shared insider threat information with entities such as Intelligence Community agencies in a collaborative environment with some supervision
 C. I have assisted others who interfaced and shared insider threat information with entities such as Intelligence Community agencies in a collaborative environment
 D. None of the Above
13. Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience developing insider threat program policies, procedures, or other formal written products?
 A. I have developed operating instructions and internal directives for an insider threat program
 B. I have provided reviews and comments on changes to insider threat regulations, procedures, or policy statements
 C. I have led and/or managed the development of significant written products in support of establishing or developing an agency or department's insider threat program
 D. I have prepared analytical summaries, reports, and findings in support of an investigative program or agency
 E. I have not had experience in performing this task
14. Identify all of the types of audiences with which you have direct experience communicating with to support effective incident management. (Check all that Apply)
 A. Federal Operations Centers
 B. Executive staff
 C. Technical experts
 D. Continuity of Operations Sites
 E. Regional or field staff
 F. Managers or supervisors
 G. None of the above
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected