Position Title
Supervisory Consumer Safety Inspector
Agency
Food Safety and Inspection Service
Announcement Number
FSIS-25-MMP-12786444-BMF Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 22, 2025 to Thursday, August 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. Your answers will be used to determine your eligibility to apply to this job opportunity announcement. You will be considered under the eligibility option(s) to which you answer YES. Select YES to all eligibility options for which you want to be considered. If you respond NO to meeting the criteria for all the eligibilities, you will not be considered for the position(s) under this announcement.

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration for EACH selected eligibility. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration.
1. Are you a current Food Safety and Inspection Service employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a Food Safety and Inspection Service employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment AND you have held or currently hold a position on a permanent basis in the competitive service with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Clarksville, AR
 B. Moselle, MS
 C. Summit, MS
 D. California, MO
 E. Humboldt, TN
2. I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. DOCUMENT UPLOADS - I understand that each document uploaded must be less than 5MB and in one of the following document formats: GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, PDF, TXT, or Word (.DOC or .DOCX). For more information see the "How to Apply" portion of the vacancy announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. How did you learn about this FSIS position? Please select all that apply.
 A. LinkedIn
 B. Social Media (such as Facebook, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Job Finder Site (such as Indeed, Monster, etc.)
 D. Job Board from School, College, University, or Alumni Organization (e.g., Handshake, Symplicity, 12Twenty, Other)
 E. Local Billboard
 F. FSIS-Sponsored Job Fair, Career Fair, or Information Session/Event
 G. School-Sponsored Job Fair, Career Fair, or Information Session/Event Sponsored by a School, College, University, or Alumni Organization
 H. FSIS Employee
 I. USDA Employee
 J. Friend, Family Member, or non-FSIS or non-USDA Coworker
 K. USAJobs Search
 L. Other
6. Please share any additional details about how you learned about this position, especially if you selected "Other" in the previous question. If nothing to add, enter "N/A".
7. Potential Variation in Shift, Duty Location, and Amount of Travel:

Vacancy shift, duty location, and amount of travel may be frequent. I am willing to accept a position that includes the following (select all that apply):
 A. 1st Shift
 B. 2nd Shift
 C. 3rd Shift
 D. Rotating Shifts
 E. Varying shifts with frequent travel (50%-75% of the time)
 F. Varying shifts with very frequent travel (76% or more of the time)
8. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
9. 2-PAGE LIMIT ACKNOWLEDGEMENT - I understand that there is a 2-page limit on resume length for the initial qualification determination. If my resume is longer than two pages, only the first two pages will be reviewed to determine if I qualify.

For more information on what to include in your resume, see the "Required Documents" section of the vacancy announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. I have at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-10 level (or equivalent) that is clearly outlined in my resume demonstrating the following:
 A. Experience that provides knowledge of slaughter, processing, and inspection of meat, poultry, or egg products, Skill to tactfully communicate with internal and external stakeholders , Skill or ability to lead a team, supervise and/or provide direct oversight of the work of others or subject matter.
 B. I do not have the experience as outlined above and in the job opportunity announcement.
2. I have one year of time in grade at the GS-10 (or equivalent) level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. N/A as I am applying under a special hiring authority that is exempt from time in grade requirements
3. Please describe your experience performing thorough work with strong attention to detail.   I have:
 A. Planned a full range of day-to-day food safety activities.
 B. Coordinated inspection duties amongst personnel to ensure completion of duties & tasks.
 C. Supervised personnel in the completion of duties and tasks.
 D. Reviewed work in progress to assess the quality of work produced.
 E. None of the Above
4. Please describe your experience performing thorough work with strong attention to detail.   I have:
 A. Served in a lead role such as Inspector-in-Charge (IIC) of an establishment.
 B. Identified corrective measures necessary to meet regulatory requirements.
 C. Communicated with stakeholders to interpret and clarify regulations, policies, procedures, and practices.
 D. Provided training and information to employees on job tasks, policies, procedures, and practices.
 E. Reviewed and rated job performance of employees for award submissions, quarterly reviews, and/or annual reviews.
 F. None of the Above
5. Please describe your ability to influence, challenge, and motivate others.   I have:
 A. Mentored personnel in the completion of duties and tasks.
 B. Inspired others to work more efficiently and productively.
 C. Motivated others to complete a full range of day-to-day food safety activities.
 D. Influenced the coordination of inspection activities.
 E. Conducted on-the-job training and provided feedback while adhering to the principals of equal employment.
 F. Fostered working relationships among stakeholders.
 G. None of the above.
6. Please describe your experience expressing information, ideas, or facts to individuals or groups effectively.  I have:
 A. Communicated food safety information with plant management and other stakeholders.
 B. Oversee the completion of duties and tasks and provide feedback that promotes the principles of equal opportunity.
 C. Communicated findings, observations, or other relevant information in a lead role such as Inspector-in-charge (IIC).
 D. Provided feedback related to job performance for the issuance of awards, quarterly, and/or annual reviews.
 E. None of the Above.
7. Please describe your experience listening to others, attending non-verbal cues, and responding appropriately.   I have:
 A. Communicated with stakeholders to interpret and clarify regulations, policies, procedures, and practices.
 B. Mentor employees through training and sharing of information on job tasks, policies, procedures, and practices.
 C. Fostered working relationships among stakeholders to improve collaboration.
 D. Coordinated inspection activities amongst personnel to ensure completion of duties and tasks.
 E. None of the above.
8. Please describe your experience identifying and analyzing problems to make recommendations.  I have:
 A. Analyzed food safety systems through the verification of day-to-day activities.
 B. Overseen the completion of assigned tasks & duties and analyze and address problems as they are identified.
 C. Identified and determined if corrective actions taken were adequate to restore regulatory compliance.
 D. Conducted inquiries with regards to conflicts and reported outcomes to supervisors.
 E. Served as Inspector-in-Charge (IIC) monitoring and verifying resolutions to problems identified within the food safety systems.
 F. None of the above.
9. Please describe your experience producing written information that is appropriate for the intended audience.  I have:
 A. Developed written information (e.g. e-mails, non-compliance reports, or other written communications) for a variety of personnel to interpret and clarify regulations, policies, procedures, and practices.
 B. Conducted inquiries with regards to conflicts and drafted written responses of findings or outcomes
 C. Provided documented feedback as Inspector-in-Charge (IIC) such as IIC Verification Reports, Disciplinary Actions, etc
 D. None of the above.
10. Please describe your experience advising others on technical issues.  I have:
 A. Utilized expert knowledge to plan and direct a full range of day-to-day food safety activities that ensures public health.
 B. Supervised personnel in the completion of assigned tasks by providing guidance and training to ensure regulatory compliance.
 C. Served in a lead role such as Inspector-in-Charge (IIC) advising a variety of personnel on regulatory compliance determinations.
 D. Reviewed and rated job performance of employees for award submissions, quarterly reviews, and/or annual reviews.
 E. None of the above.
11. Please describe your experience evaluating technical information.  I have:
 A. Verified the establishment is operating within the parameters of its HACCP plan.
 B. Identified and determined if corrective actions taken by an establishment are adequate to resolve regulatory noncompliance.
 C. Interpreted and clarified regulations, policies, procedures and practices for a variety of personnel.
 D. Evaluated and utilized technical information to assess the quality and quantity of work produced.
 E. Researched technical information to resolve conflicts or disagreements in data or information and reports outcomes.
 F. None of the above.
12. Please describe your experience ensuring that staff are appropriately selected, utilized, and developed.  I have:
 A. Supervised personnel in the completion of assigned tasks.
 B. Mentored or trained employees on job tasks, policies, procedures, and practices.
 C. Conducted inquiries related to conflicts and reported outcomes and recommendations to assist in the selection, utilization or development of employees.
 D. Reviewed and rated job performance of employees for award submissions, quarterly reviews and/or annual reviews.
 E. Promoted the principals of equal opportunity by avoiding offensive or discriminatory conduct or displays while conducting day-to-day food safety activities.
 F. None of the above.
13. Please describe your experience planning, distributing, coordinating, and monitoring work assignments.   I have:
 A. Managed a full range of day-to-day food safety activities.
 B. Coordinated inspection activities amongst personnel.
 C. Reviewed work in progress to assess the quality and quantity of work completed.
 D. Led planning, distributing, coordinating, and monitoring of work assignments.
 E. None of the above.
14. Please describe your experience rapidly adapting to new information, changing conditions, or unexpected obstacles.  I have:
 A. Managed a full range of day-to-day food safety activities adapting quickly to changes in information or unexpected obstacles.
 B. Coordinated inspection activities amongst personnel while adapting to newly disseminated information such as new directives, policies, procedures or rules.
 C. Overseen the completion of assigned tasks responding to variations in assignments.
 D. Adhered to changing methodologies to provide training and information to employees on job tasks, policies, procedures and practices.
 E. Led establishment or team through challenging obstacles or changing conditions (e.g. acting as Inspector-in-Charge (IIC).
 F. None of the above.
15. Please describe your experience developing and maintaining effective relationships with others.  I have:
 A. Developed and maintained relationships with a variety of personnel through the management of a full range of day-to-day food safety activities,
 B. Developed and maintained relationships with a variety of personnel through the coordination of inspection activities,
 C. Developed and maintained relationships in a leadership role such as Inspector-in-charge (IIC).
 D. Developed and maintained relationships among stakeholders to improve collaboration.
 E. None of the above.
16. Please describe your experience effectively dealing with people who are difficult, hostile or distressed.  I have:
 A. Responded effectively to difficult, hostile, or distressed stakeholders to interpret and clarify regulations, policies, procedures, and practices.
 B. Conducted inquiries regarding conflicts and reported outcomes through appropriate supervisory chain.
 C. Provided feedback to effectively de-escalate difficult, hostile, or distressed personnel.
 D. Managed difficult, hostile, or distressed personnel in the completion of assigned tasks.
 E. None of the above.
17. Please describe your experience setting well-defined realistic goals and commitment toward completing assignments in a timely manner.  I have:
 A. Established realistic goals to manage a full range of day-to-day food safety activities.
 B. Coordinated inspection activities amongst a variety of personnel in a commitment toward completing assignments in a timely manner.
 C. Supervised personnel to ensure the completion of assigned tasks in a timely manner.
 D. Provided training and information to employees on practices developed to ensure a commitment toward completing assignments in a timely manner.
 E. Led efforts to complete tasks in accordance with established deadline.
 F. Reviewed and/or rated job performance of employees in a timely manner to meet performance management timeframes.
 G. None of the above.
18. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 A. Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 B. No, I do not certify and I understand that by responding “no” to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected