Position Title
Motor Vehicle Operator
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
NC-1616-NACE-25-12805578-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 29, 2025 to Monday, October 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a United States Citizen?

For more information, review Employment of U.S Citizens.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.  
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
When you applied to this job, did you have any engagement with a National Park Service (NPS) Recruiter?
 A. No. I did not have any engagement with an NPS recruiter.
 B. Yes. I attended an NPS Federal Resume Webinar.
 C. Yes. At a virtual or in-person recruitment or job fair.
 D. Yes. I received an email from an NPS Recruiter.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Motor Vehicle Operator WG-5703-08 positions. Please answer the following questions pertaining to your experience and qualifications.


1.
Do you have the ability to do the work of a Motor Vehicle Operator, WG-5703-08 position, without more than normal supervision?
INSTRUCTION: From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your current level of experience and/or training that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. Select only one response and do not leave this question blank.
 I have the ability to perform full range of tasks such as operating gasoline or diesel-powered heavy equipment, the use of motor vehicles up to 32,000 pounds capacity to transport material to and from the work site; operating a front-end loader, trucks up to 32,000 pounds capacity with snow plows, and/or blowers, liquid tanks, and salt spreaders to remove snow and ice from paved and graded roads, dump trucks up to ten ton capacity, and rubber-tired backhoes. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform some task such as operating gasoline or diesel-powered heavy equipment, the use of motor vehicles up to 32,000 pounds capacity to transport material to and from the work site; operating a front-end loader, trucks up to 32,000 pounds capacity with snow plows, and/or blowers, liquid tanks, and salt spreaders to remove snow and ice from paved and graded roads and dump trucks up to ten ton capacity. I work under supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who reviews my work for completion.
 I have the ability to perform common tasks such as operating gasoline or diesel-powered heavy equipment, the use of motor vehicles up to 32,000 pounds capacity to transport material to and from the work site; operating a front-end loader, and trucks up to two ton capacity with snow plows and/or blowers, liquid tanks, and salt spreaders to remove snow and ice from paved and graded roads. I work under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple motor vehicle operator work or I have received training in this area.
 I do not have on-the-job training, or the abilities described above.


Commercial Driver's License (CDL) Requirement (Condition of Employment)


2.
At the time of appointment, the incumbent of this position must possess or be able to maintain a valid Class B or higher with air brake endorsement Commercial Driver's License byt the time of appointment. Please select the response below that best describes how you meet this requirement.
 Yes, I currently possess and will be able to maintain a valid District of Columbia or state issued, Class B or higher Commercial Driver’s License (CDL). NOTE: You must submit a copy of your CDL.
 No, I do not currently possess a valid District of Columbia or state issued Commercial Driver’s License (CDL) and I will not be able to obtain one by the time of appointment.


Verification Statement


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙