Position Title
Intelligence Research Specialist
Agency
Treasury, Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
Announcement Number
25-FINCEN-12801533-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 15, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
9
11
12
13
2. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other
4. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
5. Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.
Assessment 1
Specialized experience for the GS-13: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which has equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience for this position is defined as experience in ALL of the following:

- Designing and executing projects to analyze large data sets, such as Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) data, to develop actionable findings; AND
- Identifying and producing written analytical reports on financial crimes or illicit finance, using multiple information sources, such as Bank Secrecy Act data; AND
- Communicating analytical findings with stakeholders.
1. Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to the GS-12 level in the Federal service in designing and executing projects to analyze large data sets, such as Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) data, to develop actionable findings?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Please list the job title and dates of employment listed in your resume where this experience can be found. (limit 250 characters)
3. Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to the GS-12 level in the Federal service identifying and producing written analytical reports on financial crimes or illicit finance, using multiple information sources, such as Bank Secrecy Act data?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Please list the job title and dates of employment listed in your resume where this experience can be found. (limit 250 characters)
Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to the GS-12 level in the Federal service communicating analytical findings with stakeholders?
5. Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to the GS-12 level in the Federal service communicating analytical findings with stakeholders?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Please list the job title and dates of employment listed in your resume where this experience can be found. (limit 250 characters)
Specialized experience for the GS-12: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which has equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience for this position is defined as experience in ALL of the following:

- Planning research and analyzing large data sets, such as Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) data, to develop actionable findings; AND
- Producing written analytical reports on financial crimes or illicit finance using multiple information sources, such as Bank Secrecy Act data; AND
- Communicating analytical findings with stakeholders.
7. Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to the GS-11 in the Federal service in planning research and analyzing large data sets, such as Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) data, to develop actionable findings?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Please list the job title and dates of employment listed in your resume where this experience can be found. (limit 250 characters)
9. Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to the GS-11 level in the Federal service producing written analytical reports on financial crimes or illicit finance using multiple information sources, such as Bank Secrecy Act data?
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Please list the job title and dates of employment listed in your resume where this experience can be found. (limit 250 characters)
11. Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to the GS-11 level in the Federal service communicating analytical findings with stakeholders?
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Please list the job title and dates of employment listed in your resume where this experience can be found. (limit 250 characters)
Specialized experience for the GS-11: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service which has equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience for this position is defined as experience in ALL of the following:

- Contributing to the development of data-driven analytical products AND
- Analyzing financial data, such as identifying illicit financial actors and networks, and money laundering and terrorist financing methods and trends AND
- Communicating analytical findings with stakeholders.
OR
You may substitute education for specialized experience as follows: Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree; OR 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree; OR LL.M., if related
OR
You may qualify by a combination of experience and education. To combine education and experience, the total percentage of experience at the required grade level compared to the requirement, as well as the percentage of completed education compared to the requirement must equal at least 100 percent. Only graduate level education in excess of the first 36 semester hours (54 quarter hours) may be combined to be considered for qualifying education.


13. Select the one choice that best describes your specialized experience and/or education.
 A. I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-9 level as described above and in the vacancy announcement under specialized experience requirements.
 B. I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or I have completed three full academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a doctorate or equivalent graduate degree OR LL.M., if related.
 C. I am qualifying based on a combination of education and experience. Together the percentage of experience and education as they relate to the requirement total at least 100 percent.
 D. None of the above
14. Please list the job title and dates of employment listed in your resume where this experience can be found. (limit 250 characters)
Specialized experience for the GS-09 you must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as experience:

- Analyzing financial data, such as identifying illicit financial actors and networks, and money laundering and terrorist financing methods and trends AND
- Working closely with senior analysts to assist in the development of written analytical products, such as reports, studies, or briefings.
OR
You may substitute education for specialized experience as follows: master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related.
OR
You may qualify by a combination of experience and education. To combine education and experience, the total percentage of experience at the required grade level compared to the requirement, as well as the percentage of completed education compared to the requirement must equal at least 100 percent. Only graduate level education in excess of the first 18 semester hours (27 quarter hours) may be combined to be considered for qualifying education.
15. Select the one choice that best describes your specialized experience and/or education.
 A. I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-7 level as described above and in the vacancy announcement under specialized experience requirements.
 B. I possess a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related.
 C. I am qualifying based on a combination of education and experience. Together the percentage of experience and education as they relate to the requirement total at least 100 percent.
 D. None of the above.
16. Please list the job title and dates of employment listed in your resume where this experience can be found. (limit 250 characters)
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected