Position Title
Congressional Liaison Specialist
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12782401-OLA-IMP-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 18, 2025 to Wednesday, August 27, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current USCIS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. The Reemployment Priority List (RPL) is the mechanism DHS uses to give reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees separated by reduction-in-force (RIF), or fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a former USCIS employee?  If so, have you met all of the following criteria?
Registered for the RPL program, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupied a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current/most recent performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent, and
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606
For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, visit 5 CFR 330 Subpart B.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
My SF-50 showing Separation - RIF. If that is not available yet, then official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who is in a permanent position that is in the competitive service (see block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type)?

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of our SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
13
14
2. I acknowledge the following conditions if I choose to submit my resume through the USAJOBS Resume Builder:
I understand that resumes submitted through USAJOBS Resume Builder are converted to a PDF format when they are transmitted to USA Staffing from the USAJOBS applicant interface and additional spaces/page gaps are added to resumes during the Resume Builder conversion process;
Based on the above conditions, I understand that USCIS strongly encourages me to save my resume to a PDF document and upload the PDF document instead of submitting my resume created through Resume Builder;
I understand that USCIS' human resources will only review the first 2 pages of my resume to determine eligibility/qualifications for this position;
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I have met this requirement for consideration.

(Note: Additional guidance regarding this requirement is available within the How to Submit Your Resume section of the USCIS Resume Requirement FAQs.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 D. No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.
4.

This job is being posted for individuals who reside within the local commuting area* of the announced duty location on a permanent basis. All candidates must meet this requirement, with the exception of Refugee, Asylum and International Operations (RAIO) overseas employees approved for rotation OR unless on an approved exemption OR at an approved USCIS location. In these cases you can apply for any location.

Do you reside within the local commuting area* of the announced duty location on a permanent basis OR are a RAIO overseas employee approved for rotation OR on an approved exemption** OR at an approved USCIS location***?

*Local commuting area is defined as a distance that you can reasonably travel back and forth daily to the announced duty location from your permanent residence.

**An approved exemption is: military spouses, approved RA, or temporary long distance remote status (documentation required).

***An approved USCIS location is defined as pre authorized space designated for use by the program, office or directorate.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

The address listed on your USA Jobs profile or resume must show that you reside within the local commuting area of the announced duty location.
If on an approved exemption you must provide the most recent approval.
If at an approved USCIS location you must provide the original reporting instructions.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. If your status changes, requiring you to report to a physical location you may be directed to report to one of the duty locations listed in the original job opportunity announcement without relocation expenses.
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I understand this requirement.
By answering NO to this question, I am asking to be removed from further consideration for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a current USCIS employee who opted to take part of the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) and are currently in an Administrative Leave category?
 A. Yes.
 B. No.
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. GS-13 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
2. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
3. GS-14 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
4. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
5. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-13. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
6. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-14. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-14 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
The following section contains a multitude of question types. If you see a radio button, you can only select one response. If you see a checkbox, you may select all that apply.
7. Select the statement that best describes your experience with the following: performing consultative services or training to non-technical entities in psychological principles, theories, methods, and techniques to advance knowledge of them and their appropriate use.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in providing psychological consultative or training services to outside entities.
 B. I have had education or training in how to provide psychological consultative or training services to outside entities but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work providing psychological consultative or training services to outside entities was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have provided psychological consultative or training services to outside entities as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in providing psychological consultative or training services to outside entities. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them because of my expertise.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
8. Uses knowledge that is acquired through formal training or extensive on-the-job experience to perform one's job; works with, understands, and evaluates technical information related to the job; advises others on technical issues.
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience addressing issues or concerns related to the delivery of technical customer services?
 A. I reported customer service issues to the appropriate staff for resolution.
 B. I collaborated with staff on customer requests to resolve issues.
 C. I developed new methods, approaches and procedures to improve customer services.
 D. I independently resolved customer support requests across a wide variety of information technology areas (e.g., platforms, operating systems, applications, and desktop configurations).
 E. I completed education and/or training related to providing technical customer services, but do not have professional experience.
 F. I have no experience, training, or education related to technical customer services.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
10. Have you independently written reports that present technical economic issues/analyses intended for non-technical audiences?
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Do you have experience translating raw data into reports that informed decisions made at the organization level?
 A. Assisted others compiling raw data into a usable format
 B. Translated raw data into reports for use by management within my division
 C. Translated raw data into reports for distribution outside of my division
 D. Translated raw data into reports to advise management decisions
 E. None of the above
12. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience conducting a file review for decisions made on immigration benefit applications to ensure the final decision is in compliance with immigration laws, regulations and/or policies?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to reviewing immigration benefit decisions.
 B. I completed education and/or training on reviewing immigration benefit decisions, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I independently reviewed immigration benefit applications to ensure the adjudication decision complied with immigration laws, regulations and/or policies.
 D. I assisted applicants in appealing the final decision for immigration benefits sought based on the grounds of the decision not being compliant with immigration laws, regulations and/or policies.
 E. I counseled my superiors on cases where the final decision for immigration benefits was not in compliance with immigration laws, regulations and/or policies and recommended solutions to rectify the error.
13. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers?
 A. I have not had education and/or training in developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents.
 B. I have had education and/or training in developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers.
 C. I have developed and formatted written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers under close supervision to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have independently developed and formatted written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers.
 E. I have supervised others in, or been regularly consulted as an expert in, developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers.
14. Which choice best describes your highest level of experience writing documents that are consistent with adjudicative standards?
 A. I completed education and/or training related to writing documents consistent with adjudicative standards, but do not yet have professional experience.
 B. I drafted documents for senior level review and finalization.
 C. I independently researched and interpreted adjudicative standards in order to create logical, well organized correspondence related to benefit cases.
 D. I independently reviewed and approved others' documents to ensure standards were met.
 E. None of the above.
15. Which statement best describes your experience writing investigative reports?
 A. I have had education/training in writing investigative reports.
 B. I have assisted senior investigators in writing investigative reports.
 C. I have independently written investigative reports.
 D. I have provided review of written investigative reports.
 E. I have no experience related to writing investigative reports.
16. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience writing a statement of reasons for an adverse determination (e.g., disqualifying applicants)?
 A. I have no education, training, or experience writing statements of reason.
 B. I completed education and/or training in writing statements of reason, but have not yet performed them on the job.
 C. I drafted adjudicative summaries to identify potential adverse determinations.
 D. I drafted a request for information to mitigate or disqualify applicants' eligibility.
 E. I issued notices of proposed actions to communicate adverse actions to the applicant.
 F. I issued final adverse determinations to applicants.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
17. I understand that I may be required to complete a writing sample and/or other writing exercise as part of the interview/selection process. If the hiring office decides to request a writing sample and/or other writing exercise as part of its selection process, a designated contractor or Agency representative will contact me.
 A. Yes
 B. No
18. Have you written technical bulletins that were posted on the intranet to inform customers of problems and actions that they can take to resolve the problems?
 A. Yes
 B. No
19. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience in solving complex problems in the workplace.
 A. I have solved difficult problems in the workplace by surrounding myself with others who are strong in problem solving and learning from them.
 B. I am positive in my approach and reframe the problem or issue to come up with new solutions.
 C. I have solved complex problems in the workplace by focusing on details, thinking analytically, and offering practical solutions that evaluate the potential costs, resources, and barriers to a successful solution.
 D. I have identified problems in the workplace but have no experience solving complex problems in the workplace.
20. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience solving problems (e.g., navigating deviations from standard work processes)?
 A. I asked for guidance from others (e.g., peers, supervisors, trainers) to solve work problems.
 B. I referenced established training documents and operating procedures to solve work problems.
 C. I collaborated with peers to develop alternative options to solve a problem.
 D. I trained others on how to resolve problems (e.g., adapt to deviations) in their work.
 E. I completed education and/or training in problem solving but don't have professional experience.
 F. None of the above.
21. Select the statement that best supports your experience with the following: applying professional knowledges of psychological principles, theories, methods or data to practical situations and problems.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in applying psychological principles, theories, methods or data to practical situations and problems.
 B. I have had education or training in applying psychological principles, theories, methods or data to practical situations and problems, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have applied psychological principles, theories, methods or data to practical situations and problems on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have applied psychological principles, theories, methods or data to practical situations and problems as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance in applying psychological principles, theories, methods or data to practical situations and problems or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them because of my expertise.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
22. Have you built strong relationships with customers that created return business and additional projects?
 A. Yes
 B. No
23. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience creating correspondence (e.g., customer notifications, response to inquiries)?
 A. I created correspondence following guidance (e.g., template, explicit directions from a superior).
 B. I created correspondence without guidance that was reviewed and approved before dissemination.
 C. I independently created correspondence that did not require higher-level review or approval.
 D. I trained others in proper creation of correspondence.
 E. I completed education and/or training related to creating correspondence, but do not have professional experience.
 F. I have no experience, training, or education creating correspondence.
24. Select the customer service activities you have performed to administer employee benefits.
 A. I counseled employees, one-on-one, on employee benefits with detailed explanations.
 B. I conducted formal employee training on in-depth employee benefits topics.
 C. I responded to dissatisfied customers to resolve their employee benefits problems
 D. I proposed an alternative course of action to senior staff/supervisor in order to improve work processes
 E. None of the above.
25. If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "pass," "satisfactory," or better?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. I am a Federal employee but have not received a performance rating.
 D. Not applicable. I am not a Federal employee.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
26. Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected