Position Title
Forestry Technician (Fire Dispatch)
Agency
Bureau of Land Management
Announcement Number
CADHAOC-25-12724593-KP Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, June 4, 2025 to Tuesday, November 4, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Career Transition Assistance Plan:  Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced or surplused from the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which I have been or will be separated; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.   
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan: Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am currently in a position at the same grade level or higher than the position being announced; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Does the Bureau of Land Management employ any member of your family?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. If yes to the previous question, please provide the name, relationship, organization in which employed (N/A- if not applicable). (limit 200 characters)
6. I understand that additional selections may be made from this vacancy, within the same geographical area, by other bureaus from within the DOI, through shared recruiting activities, and my application may be shown to multiple hiring offices. Additional selections for similar positions across the entire Department of the Interior within the local commuting area(s) identified in this vacancy announcement may be made. By applying, I agree to have my application shared with any interested selecting official(s) within the DOI. There is no option to opt-out as my information will not be shared with other hiring agencies outside of the DOI. Applying to this announcement does not replace the need to apply to other job opportunity announcements for which you wish to receive consideration.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. I understand that I must ensure my resume, supporting documents (SF-50 or other official document to verify date of birth), transcripts, fire qualifications (IQCS), etc., are not password protected or contain redacted information that could make my application package ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Bishop, CA
 B. San Bernardino, CA
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
4
5
6
7
Assessment 1
1. I qualify for the GS-4 grade level because:
 A. I have 6 months of general work experience, which can be any work experience AND 6 months of specialized work experience equivalent to the GS-03 level duties. Examples of specialized work experience include: organized and accurate handling of multiple tasks at one time, where tasks are completed quickly and efficiently and require precise verbal and electronic communication, such as on the phone and entering data into a database.
 B. I have 2 years of education above the high school level which included at least 12 semester hours in any combination of the following courses: forestry, agriculture, crop or plant science, range management or conservation, wildlife management, watershed management, soil science, natural resources (except marine biology and oceanography), outdoor recreation management, civil or forest engineering, or wildland fire science. No more than 3 semester hours of mathematics is creditable toward this requirement. I will provide a copy of my transcripts with my application.
 C. I have a combination of experience and education and will provide a copy of my transcripts with my application.
 D. I do not meet the any of the above responses.
2. I qualify for the GS-5 grade level because:
 A. I have 12 months of specialized work experience equivalent to the GS-04. Examples of specialized work experience include experience in dispatch and dispatch office functions related to law enforcement and wildland fire suppression activities.
 B. I have a 4-year course of study above high school leading to a bachelor’s degree with courses related to forestry, agriculture, crop or plant science, range management or conservation, wildlife management, watershed management, soil science, natural resources (except marine biology and oceanography), outdoor recreation management, civil or forest engineering, or wildland fire science. I will provide a copy of my transcripts with my application.
 C. I have a combination of experience and education and will provide a copy of my transcripts with my application.
 D. I do not meet the any of the above responses.
3. I qualify for the GS-6 grade level because:
 A. I have 12 months of specialized work experience equivalent to the GS-05. Examples of specialized work experience include experience in dispatch and dispatch office functions related to law enforcement and wildland fire suppression activities; guidance and direction to subordinate dispatchers.
 B. I have one full year (18 semester hours) of graduate level education directly related to this position such as forestry, agriculture, crop or plant science, range management or conservation, wildlife management, watershed management, soil science, natural resources (except marine biology and oceanography), outdoor recreation management, civil or forest engineering, or wildland fire science. I will provide a copy of my transcripts with my application.
 C. I have a combination of experience and education and will provide a copy of my transcripts with my application.
 D. I do not meet the any of the above responses.
4. I qualify for the GS-7 grade level because:
 A. I have 12 months of specialized work experience equivalent to the GS-06. Examples of specialized work experience include: performing and directing others in dispatch and dispatch office functions related to law enforcement and wildland fire suppression activities, providing logistical support information and making recommendations for efficient use of available resources.
 B. I have one full year (18 semester hours) of graduate level education directly related to this position such as forestry, agriculture, crop or plant science, range management or conservation, wildlife management, watershed management, soil science, natural resources (except marine biology and oceanography), outdoor recreation management, civil or forest engineering, or wildland fire science. I will provide a copy of my transcripts with my application.
 C. I have a combination of experience and education and will provide a copy of my transcripts with my application.
 D. I do not meet the any of the above responses.
5. I have a current valid State Driver's License.
 A. Yes.
 B. No.
6. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documentor interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected