Position Title
Supply Management Officer - Chief (Supply Chain Management)
Agency
Bureau of Engraving and Printing
Announcement Number
25-BEP-12798212 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 12, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency covered by an OPM Interchange agreement that conveys noncompetitive eligibility?

For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=InterchangeAgreementsWithOtherMeritSystems

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following merit promotion categories?
Current Federal civilian employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current Excepted service employee covered by an Interchange Agreement
Former Federal employee with Reinstatement eligibility
Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA)
Current Federal employee serving on a VRA appointment
Land Management Employee eligible under Public Law 114-47
Other competitive category not listed above (you must submit proof of eligibility)
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you eligible to be appointed under the Military Spouse Noncompetitive Appointing Authority based on any of the following categories?
You are the spouse of an active duty member of the Armed Forces.
You are the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs.
You are the widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status, and you have not re-married.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources. (https://www.usajobs.gov/Veterans)

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a former federal employee that has been separated for at least one full year and is eligible to be non-competitively reinstated to a higher grade or full-performance level than which you left federal employment?(Note: you MUST provide:  1) a copy of your separation SF-50 (the "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2"); AND 2) the last performance appraisal you received from your federal employment which shows at least a fully successful rating.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Do you currently hold (or have you previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you eligible under any other miscellaneous appointing authority not listed thus far, such as (but not all inclusive to):
Postal Career Service Employee;
Postal Rate Commission Employee;
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; 
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee; or 
Foreign overseas employee or eligible family member of former overseas employee
 
For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=MiscellaneousAuthoritiesNotRegulated .  
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

For more information on Foreign overseas employment please review the following: https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#NontemporaryForeignService or https://www.state.gov/global-community-liaison-office/family-member-employment/family-member-employment-in-the-d-c-area/non-competitive-eligibility-nce/#NCE5




 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you eligible for consideration as a Peace Corps, VISTA, or Action volunteer?  If you select this option, you are required to provide acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility by submitting proof of employment from the appropriate agency with your completed application.

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Fort Worth, TX
2. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other
4. As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal (i.e. final annual performance appraisal issued and signed by appropriate management official) dated within the last 18 months. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these specific requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so. If you fail to provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration. NOTE: If you are wanting to be considered for non competitive reinstatement a performance appraisal document MUST be submitted to be eligible. Type "yes" in the text box below if you are providing a performance appraisal meeting the above requirements with your application. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application meeting the requirement, please provide a reason in the text box below. ("N/A" is not considered an acceptable response).
5. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
6. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
8. Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.
9. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. Specialized experience for the GS-15, is defined as one year of experience at the GS-14 level, or equivalent that is directly related to the position and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience for this position includes:

-Providing strategic leadership of an organization-wide supply chain in accordance with regulations and policy.

Examples of such experience could include:
-Conducting studies to improve supply and inventory management functions to reduce costs and streamline processes; OR
-Advising senior level management, customers, or coworkers on manufacturing requirements; OR
-Leading or managing a team of supply chain or logistics employees and monitoring their progress towards achieving project goals and objectives; OR
-Experience in making long and short-range plans to ensure that stated goals, objectives, and deadlines are met; OR
-Analyzing and determining raw materials needed are in compliance with policies and procedures.


For the GS-15, select the answer that best describes your experience.
 A. I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above.
 B. I do not have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. Do you have experience resolving material availability issues which may impact production schedules or delivery to customers?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties. We must be able to verify this experience in your resume for you to receive credit. (limit 250 characters)
4. Which of the following materials management activities do you have experience with?
 A. Inventory accuracy
 B. Location integrity
 C. Warehousing
 D. Shipping
 E. Receiving
 F. Physical inventory processes
 G. None of the above
5. Please select all of the choices with which you have had experience.
 A. Actively worked with acquisitions to procure an off the shelf order management system for implementation in a department or office.
 B. Fully developed the program of requirements for a complete order management system, which included demand management, materials management, scheduling, and inventory management.
 C. Performed a needs assessment for inventory management, worked with stakeholders to identify internal and external options, and implemented a new order management system affecting multiple office or departments.
 D. Participated in the planning, coordination, and implementation of Agency, Bureau, or company- wide changes affecting the order management process or system.
 E. None of the above.
6. From the following list, please select all of the choices with which you have had experience.
 A. Responsible for managing manufacturing related contract administration, to include purchasing.
 B. Provide overall planning, direction, coordination and control for the storage and distribution of raw material, repair parts, equipment, and general supplies.
 C. Managed a large, multi-facility warehouse.
 D. Worked with applicable stakeholders to design or manage effective Sales and Operations Planning (S&OP) and ensure detailed scheduling the customer and operational requirements.
 E. Experience ensuring material availability in a manufacturing environment.
 F. None of the above.
7. Choose one from the following options that best describes your highest level of experience in the manufacturing industry controlling the supply and demand of incoming materials in order to meet production needs.
 A. I have had the responsibility to maintain a regular stock of inventory and oversee production schedules for one line of production within a manufacturing facility.
 B. I have had the responsibility to maintain inventory and production schedules for a variety of production lines within many manufacturing facilities across the states and/or within many manufacturing facilities worldwide.
 C. I have had the responsibility to maintain a just-in-time delivery of inventory and production schedule within a Lean manufacturing system and/or Kaizen environment for a variety of production lines within many manufacturing facilities across the states and/or within many manufacturing facilities worldwide.
 D. I have not performed any of the above tasks.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
8. Do you have experience leading a supply chain team in an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) environment or documenting the requirements for an ERP in a manufacturing environment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties. We must be able to verify this experience in your resume for you to receive credit. (limit 250 characters)
10. From the following list, please select all of the choices with which you have had experience.
 A. Provided technical services in support of material specifications and acquisitions for major production materials.
 B. Performed analysis of multi-facility operational effectiveness and provided recommendations and implementation strategies that were adopted.
 C. Provide capacity planning analysis that would impact material availability and/or equipment utilization.
 D. Performed analysis related to raw materials, work in process, and finished goods. Analysis includes optimizing the inventory days of supply (turns), potential risk identification and mitigation strategies.
 E. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
11. Do you have experience with maintaining automated Maintenance Repair and Operation (MRO) Parts systems, formulating reports and preparing cost accounting reports for the site and headquarters?
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties. We must be able to verify this experience in your resume for you to receive credit. (limit 250 characters)
13. Choose the response that best describes your experience.
 A. I have supervised/managed and provided guidance to employees or subordinate supervisors to identify priorities and workloads and accomplish established goals.
 B. I have led, temporarily supervised and /or managed a staff/team in the design and delivery of programs and/or projects with deadlines and/or changing priorities.
 C. I have led a shift /small workforce of blue-collar occupations or a team with varying knowledge levels.
 D. As a senior staff member, served as acting supervisor on occasion, and /or assisted the supervisor in developing and leading others. Led/directed and motivated team members to accomplish specific projects timely.
 E. I have been trained on leading, motivating other, however I have no working experience in developing, leading, and directing a staff.
 F. None of the above.
14. Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties. We must be able to verify this experience in your resume for you to receive credit. (limit 250 characters)
15. Choose all statements below that describe your communication/briefing skills that you use as a regular part of your job.
 A. I have ensured integrated communication with management, senior personnel, or executives within & outside of the Agency or company regarding supply chain management issues and policies.
 B. I explain and justify decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations of importance to the program to employees, team leaders, supervisors, managers and senior leadership.
 C. I am the lead representative when discussing supply chain matters on behalf of my organization, speak frequently on behalf of the larger organization as well as the Department, Agency, or company.
 D. I brief team leaders and supervisors on the status of the performance measures achieved and the overall progress attained as relates to meeting the established strategic and annual goals and objectives.
 E. I have prepared written documents, and have orally communicated information regarding the office, division, and/or branch compliance with internal controls, policies and procedures, as well as briefing internal and external oversight teams, management and/or external stakeholders.
 F. I foster cooperation and consensus among groups of direct relevance to the supply chain management cycle in order to achieve Bureau, Agency, Department or company goals.
 G. I have not performed any of the above tasks.
16. Select one statement that best describes your experience giving formal presentations about program and project issues.
 A. I have limited experience giving presentations on program and project issues.
 B. I have given presentations on routine program and project issues to officials in my organization.
 C. I have given presentations on routine program and project issues with key elements to management officials in my organizations.
 D. I have given presentations on routine, program and project issues to peers and management officials in my immediate organization and external to my organization.
 E. I have given presentations on program and project issues of a controversial or sensitive nature to a wide range of individuals internal and external to the organization.
 F. None of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected