Position Title
Deportation Officer (Reemployed Annuitant)
Agency
Immigration and Customs Enforcement
Announcement Number
ERO-12820073-RHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, October 20, 2025 to Wednesday, December 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Were you formerly employed as a Federal civilian employee, and have since retired? 

If eligible, submit a copy of your Separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your retired status.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or higher than the grade level of the vacancy
the promotion potential (full performance level) of the position you are being separated from is equal to or higher than the promotion potential of the vacancy, and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?
If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or higher than the grade level of the vacancy
the promotion potential (full performance level) of the position you are being separated from is equal to or higher than the promotion potential of the vacancy, and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Phoenix, AZ
 B. Los Angeles, CA
 C. San Diego, CA
 D. San Francisco, CA
 E. Centennial, CO
 F. Washington, DC
 G. Miami, FL
 H. Atlanta, GA
 I. Chicago, IL
 J. New Orleans, LA
 K. Baltimore, MD
 L. Boston, MA
 M. Detroit, MI
 N. Saint Paul Park, MN
 O. Newark, NJ
 P. Buffalo, NY
 Q. New York, NY
 R. Philadelphia, PA
 S. Dallas, TX
 T. El Paso, TX
 U. Harlingen, TX
 V. Houston, TX
 W. San Antonio, TX
 X. Salt Lake City, UT
 Y. Seattle, WA


2.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service? If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


4.
I acknowledge that I am solely responsible for the answers and documentation submitted in my online application. I understand that my answers cannot be altered once I have submitted my application and the announcement has closed. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information contained in my online application for Federal Employment is true, correct, complete, and made in good faith. I understand that a false or fraudulent answer to any question or item on any part of my online application may be grounds for not hiring me, or for firing me after I begin work, and may be punishable by fine or imprisonment or both (See section 1001 of title 18, United States Code).

By clicking "Yes" below, I certify that I accept responsibility for the responses and documentation submitted in my online application and that the information I have provided is true to the best of my knowledge.
 Yes
 No


5.
Do any of your family members work for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement?

(A family member means an individual with any of the following relationships to the applicant: (1) Spouse, and parents thereof; (2) Sons and daughters, and spouses thereof; (3) Parents, and spouses thereof; (4) Brothers and sisters, and spouses thereof; (5) Grandparents and grandchildren, and spouses thereof; (6) Domestic partner and parents thereof, including domestic partners of any individual in (2) through (5) of this definition; and (7) Any individual related by blood or affinity whose close association with the employee is the equivalent of a family relationship.)

 Yes
 No


6.
If the answer to the question above is yes, please provide the relative(s)' name, relationship, and the ICE office or organization for which your relative(s) works (if known).

If the answer to the question above is no, please indicate 'not applicable'.


7.
While the location in this announcement has multiple locations, you have the opportunity to identify one duty location preference. Note that multiple duty locations fall within the Area of Responsibility (AOR) of each Field Office Director (FOD) office. Please view the duty locations within each FOD AOR ICE Field Offices | ICE. Your preference location is NOT guaranteed. The duty locations offered will be based on the needs of the agency. If you decline the duty location offered during the official job offer, you will be removed from further consideration. Please be advised that "not all duty locations have vacancies at this time".
Atlanta, GA
Charleston, SC
Charlotte, NC
Cary, NC
Lumpkin, GA
Columbia, SC
Greensboro, NC
Greer, SC
Hendersonville, NC
Savannah, GA
Wilmington, NC
Baltimore, MD
Salisbury, MD
Burlington, MA
Hartford, CT
Manchester, NH
Scarborough, ME
Warwick, RI
St. Albans, VT
Buffalo, NY
Batavia, NY
Malta, NY
Champlain, NY
Chicago, IL
Broadview, IL
Indianapolis, IN
Kansas City, MO
Louisville, KY
Milwaukee, WI
St. Louis, MO
Bowling Green, KY
Rock Island, IL
Springfield, MO
Wichita, KS
Dallas, TX
Oklahoma City, OK
Alvarado, TX
Lubbock, TX
Amarillo, TX
Athens, TX
Big Spring, TX
Anson, TX
San Angelo, TX
Tulsa, OK
Centennial, CO
Aurora, CO
Florence, CO
Frederick, CO
Alamosa, CO
Cheyenne, WY
Craig, CO
Durango, CO
Grand Junction, CO
Detroit, MI
Cincinnati, OH
Brooklyn Heights, OH
Westerville, OH
Grand Rapids, MI
El Paso, TX
Albuquerque, NM
Midland, TX
Chaparral, NM
Roswell, NM
Las Cruces, NM
Pecos, TX
Harlingen, TX
Laredo, TX
Edinburg, TX
Los Fresnos, TX
Corpus Christi, TX
Raymonville, TX
Houston, TX
Livingston, TX
Conroe, TX
Huntsville, TX
Waco, TX
Los Angeles, CA
Adelanto, CA
San Bernardino, CA
Santa Ana, CA
Camarillo, CA
Santa Maria, CA
Plantation, FL
Pompano Beach, FL
Ft. Myers, FL
Jacksonville, FL
Miami, FL
Miramar, FL
Orlando, FL
Guaynabo, PR
Stuart, FL
Tallahassee, FL
Tampa, FL
Aguadilla, PR
St. Thomas, VI
New Orleans, LA
Oakdale, LA
Alexandria, LA
Baton Rouge, LA
Birmingham, AL
Pearl, MS
Jena, LA
Little Rock, AR
Winnfield, LA
Knoxville, TN
Chattanooga, TN
Gadsden, AL
Fayetteville, AR
Ft. Smith, AR
Gulfport, MS
Lafayette, LA
Memphis, TN
Mobile, AL
Montgomery, AL
Nashville, TN
Texarkana, AR
New York, NY
Central Islip, NY
Newark, NJ
Mt. Laurel, NJ
Elizabeth, NJ
Philadelphia, PA
Philipsburg, PA
Pittsburgh, PA
York, PA
Charleston, WV
Dover, DE
Lords Valley, PA
Williamsport, PA
Phoenix, AZ
Florence, AZ
Eloy, AZ
Tucson, AZ
Yuma, AZ
Salt Lake City, UT
Boise, ID
Las Vegas, NV
Billings, MT
Idaho Falls, ID
Ogden, UT
Orem, UT
Reno, NV
St. George, UT
Twin Falls, ID
San Antonio, TX
Austin, TX
Del Rio, TX
Karnes City, TX
Pearsall, TX
Taylor, TX
San Diego, CA
Calexico, CA
El Centro, CA
San Francisco, CA
Bakersfield, CA
Fresno, CA
Honolulu, HI
Sacramento, CA
Redding, CA
Morgan Hill, CA
Stockton, CA
Tamuning, Guam
Seattle, WA
Tacoma, WA
Portland, OR
Yakima, WA
Anchorage, AK
Eugene, OR
Ferndale, WA
Medford, OR
Richland, WA
Fort Snelling, MN
Omaha, NE
Des Moines, IA
Cedar Rapids, IA
Grand Forks, ND
Grand Island, NE
North Platte, NE
Sioux City, IA
Sioux Falls, SD
Chantilly, VA
Bowling Green, VA
Richmond, VA
Harrisonburg, VA
Norfolk, VA
Salem, VA


Conditions of Employment
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
All applicants must undergo an intensive background investigation. The background investigation focuses on your honesty, reliability, police record, financial record, use of alcohol and drugs, mental health, and employment record. The background investigation includes interviews with your past and present employers, neighbors, teachers, and references, as well as checks of law enforcement, credit, educational, medical, and other records. U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) reviews your completed background investigation to determine if you are suitable for employment and meet security standards. ICE may contact you for additional information to refute information in your background investigation before a final decision is made. If you are found unsuitable, you cannot be employed as a Deportation Officer.

Are you willing to undergo a background investigation for this position?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently debarred from federal employment?
 Yes
 No


4.
As part of the background investigation, you must be prepared to answer questions about the use, sale, possession, or transportation of illegal narcotics, stimulants, and hallucinogenic or other controlled substances. Keeping this in mind, do you wish to continue this process?
 Yes
 No


5.
Have you ever been convicted of a felony or crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year by a civilian or military authority?
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you currently married to or living/residing with any person(s) residing in the U.S. without a legal/lawful immigration status (e.g., Entry Without Inspection, overstayed visa)?
 Yes
 No


7.
Have you ever knowingly harbored, concealed, transported, or employed an illegal alien?
 Yes, I have intentionally harbored, concealed, transported, or employed an illegal alien.
 No, I have never intentionally harbored, concealed, transported, or employed an illegal alien.


8.
Have you ever been convicted of a crime of domestic violence (misdemeanor or felony) by a civilian or military authority that has not been expunged, set aside, pardoned, or dismissed?
 Yes, I have been convicted of domestic violence and it has NOT been expunged, set aside, pardoned or dismissed.
 No, I have never been convicted of a crime of domestic violence that has not been expunged, set aside, pardoned or dismissed.
 Not Applicable, I've never been convicted of a crime of domestic violence.


9.
Do you have a current valid state driver's license?
 Yes
 No


10.
Have you had a felony conviction?
 Yes
 No


11.
Have you successfully completed Basic Immigration Law Enforcement Training in accordance with 8 CFR 287.1(g) and other applicable agency policy? This includes successful completion of the Immigration & Customs Enforcement (ICE) Enforcement & Removal Operations (ERO) Basic Immigration Law Enforcement Training Program (ICE_BIETP); ICE Detention & Removal Operations (DRO) Basic Immigration Law Enforcement Training Program (ICE_D); the legacy Immigration Officer Basic Training Course (IOBTC); the Border Patrol Academy (USBPI); the Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Academy Officer Basic Training Program (OBT); the combination of both the legacy Basic Immigration Detention Enforcement Officer Training Course and the ICE DRO Equivalency Training Program (ETP); the ICE Special Agent Training Program; the combination of FLETC Criminal Investigator Training Program and the DRO Equivalency Training Program for Special Agents (ETPSA) and for legacy US Customs Special Agents, the ICE / Customs Special Agent Cross Training Program. Due to regulatory requirements, no other training will be accepted. (Note: Completion of training is subject to verification)
 Yes
 No


12.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully complete a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with these requirements?
 Yes
 No


13.
A Deportation Officer requires physical strength and stamina due to long periods of surveillance, restraining suspects, and carrying heavy equipment. Environment includes work indoors/outdoors in a potentially dangerous and stressful situations. This type of working schedule may negatively affect or burden family responsibilities. Are you willing to accept these working conditions?
 Yes
 No


14.
Carrying, use and proficiency in the use of firearms is required, in accordance with ICE policy and regulations. Are you willing to carry a firearm?
 Yes
 No


15.
Have you ever lost your right to possess a firearm for any reason under Federal law?
 Yes
 No


16.
The Deportation Officer position requires moderate to arduous physical exertion involving walking and standing, use of firearms, and exposure to inclement weather. Manual dexterity with comparatively free motion of fingers, wrists, elbows, shoulders, and knee joints is required; arms/hands/legs/feet must function separately. The work requires physical strength and stamina to perform such activities as conducting long periods of surveillance, pursuing and restraining suspects, and carrying heavy equipment be utilized in investigative efforts.

Appointment will be contingent upon a candidate passing a pre-employment medical examination to ascertain possession of the physical, emotional, and mental requirements for the position. Any chronic disease or condition affecting the respiratory system, cardiovascular system, the gastrointestinal, musculoskeletal, digestive, nervous, endocrine or genitourinary systems that would impair full performance of the job duties will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis and may be disqualifying. The most common reasons for failing the examination involve vision and hearing impairments. Distance binocular vision without corrective lenses must test at least 20/200. Distant vision must test at least 20/20 in one eye and 20/30 in the other eye with or without corrective lenses. Color vision must be normal. Hearing in both ears is required. The use of hearing aids and cochlear implants in their present form are not acceptable. Any condition that would hinder full, efficient performance of the duties on the Criminal Investigator position or that would cause the individual to be a hazard to himself/herself or to others is disqualifying.

Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


17.
Did you ever enter the United States illegally, overstay an authorized period of admission; reside, work, or attend school in the United States without status, violate or assist another to violate immigration or customs laws (e.g., smuggle an alien(s), harbor/shelter an illegal alien internationally, fail to declare merchandise or funds as required, make false claim to U.S. citizenship, attempt to enter the United States using fraudulent or counterfeit documents or documents belonging to another, etc.) or were you ever removed or deported from the United States?
 Yes
 No


18.
ICE Deportation Officers may use deadly force when necessary, in accordance with the law and agency policy. Are you willing to use deadly force if necessary?
 Yes
 No


19.
Are you now under charges or do you have pending charges for any violations of law?
 Yes
 No


20.
Have you ever been convicted, been imprisoned, been on probation, or been on parole? (Includes felonies, firearms or explosives violations, misdemeanors, and all other criminal offenses)
 Yes
 No


21.
Have you engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, holding facility, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution as defined in 42 USC 1997?
 Yes, I have engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, holding facility, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution as defined in 42 U.S.C. 1997.
 No, I have not engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, holding facility, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution as defined in 42 U.S.C. 1997.


22.
Have you been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or where the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse, or have you been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in such activity?
 Yes, I have been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or where the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse, or civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in such activity.
 No, I have not been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or where the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse, or civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in such activity.


23.
Are you delinquent on any federal debt? (Includes delinquencies arising from federal taxes, loans, overpayment of benefits, and other debts to the U.S. Government, plus defaults of federally guaranteed or insured loans such as student and home mortgage loans.)
 Yes
 No


24.
Is there anything that would prevent you from testifying in the court of law?
 Yes
 No


25.
Are you aware of any information regarding your credibility, integrity and/or honesty that may impair your ability to testify in criminal proceedings?
 Yes
 No


26.
Are you currently an active duty service member in the armed forces? If yes, you are required to submit a written statement from the armed forces that certifies you are expected to be discharged or released from active duty under honorable conditions within 120 days from the close of this announcement.
 Yes, I am currently an active duty service member in the armed forces and will provide the required written statement with my application.
 No, I am not currently an active duty service member.


27.
Within the last five (5) years, have you used (including injecting, snorting, inhaling, swallowing, etc.), experimented with, received, purchased, transferred, or distributed a Schedule I-V controlled substance? Examples of controlled substances include cocaine or crack cocaine (i.e., rock, freebase, etc.), hallucinogenics (i.e., LSD, PCP, mushrooms, peyote, mescaline, etc.), ketamine (i.e., special K, jet, etc.), illegal steroids (i.e., the clear, juice, etc.), narcotics (i.e., opium, heroin, fentanyl, etc.), or stimulants (i.e., speed, crystal meth, ecstasy, etc.).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙