Position Title
Supervisory Emergency Management Specialist
Agency
Federal Emergency Management Agency
Announcement Number
894909-SC-12748056-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, June 25, 2025 to Monday, July 7, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)

Are you a current or former FEMA Stafford Act employee eligible under the Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)?

Current and former FEMA Stafford Act employees who can document 64 or more hours of paid time, per pay period, with no breaks in service* for 78 or more consecutive pay periods since August 1, 2014, are eligible to be considered for this Merit Promotion Job Opportunity Announcement. (*Note: A "break in service" is defined as 3 or more days in non-pay status, except as allowed under 5 CFR § 315.201(b)(3)(ii) for special circumstances such as military deployment, etc.).

To verify eligibility, you must submit: 
"Notice of DRRA Eligibility" provided by OCHCO.  If you believe you're eligible, but have not received your notice, please reach out to the HR Specialist listed in the announcement.
Your FEMA SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your appointment in the excepted service under the Stafford Act.  We recommend attaching a SF-50 which indicates your highest grade and step.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Current FEMA Employee

Are you a current FEMA employee who currently holds OR has previously held a permanent (not time limited) position in the competitive service?

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your permanent competitive status.  Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions.  You may need to submit more than one SF-50.  Your SF-50 must reflect:
Block 24 - Tenure:  1 - Permanent (career) or 2 - Conditional: AND
Block 34 - Position Occupied:  1 - Competitive Service
If you previously held a career or career conditional appointment, you must provide your current SF-50 and your SF-50 which shows competitive status eligibility.
Please do not submit an award SF-50, as it might not indicate your grade level and step.  
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. FEMA Employees Only Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)
Are you a current or former FEMA employee who is considered displaced or surplus (you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction in Force)?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, your most recent performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. How did you hear about this Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) job opportunity?
 A. USAJOBS
 B. FEMA's Social Media (Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Online Job board (Indeed, Zip Recruiter, etc.)
 D. FEMA.gov Careers Website
 E. FEMA Virtual Hiring Event
 F. FEMA On-Site Hiring Event
 G. College/University/Alumni Organization
 H. FEMA Employee Referral
 I. Other
2. Are you a retiree receiving a federal annuity (either military or civilian)? Or have you accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years? (Select all that apply.)
 A. Yes, I'm receiving a military annuity.
 B. Yes, I'm receiving a civilian annuity.
 C. Yes, I've received a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
 D. No, I am not receiving a federal annuity and have not accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
3. Are you a current FEMA employee?
 A. I'm a current FEMA Local Hire Employee
 B. I'm a current FEMA Reservist Employee
 C. I'm a current FEMA CORE Employee
 D. I'm a current FEMA PFT Employee
 E. I'm a current FEMA Senior Executive Service Employee
 F. I'm not a current FEMA Employee
4. Are you currently serving, or have served within the last five years, as a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) employee in the Executive Branch?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Please provide the following information regarding your political appointment(s): 1. Official Title of Position; 2. Type of Appointment (i.e. Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career SES); 3. Name of Agency; 4. Date Position began; and 5. Date Position ended. (NOTE: If you have never held a political appointment, please enter N/A.)
6. Within the past five years, have you received a buyout or payment through the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment Authority (VSIP) when separating from a federal position?
 A. No
 B. Yes, and I understand candidates who are reemployed with the federal government within five years after receiving a buyout or payment under VSIP are required to repay the entire amount of the incentive prior to their onboarding date.
7. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?

Select "Not Applicable" if this question does not apply to you.
 A. Yes
 B. No, but I have an exemption
 C. I am a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, and have NOT registered with the Selective Service System and do NOT have an exemption.
 D. Not Applicable
2. All FEMA employees are subject to 24-hour on-call in the event of an emergency and all Federal employees may be subject to emergency deployment. In the event of an emergency deployment, travel requirements may be extensive in nature (weeks to months), with little advance notice, and may require relocation to emergency sites, some of which are quite austere. The length of deployment may last anywhere from days to months, depending upon the nature of the emergency or disaster.

Every FEMA employee is considered an emergency manager and each employee has regular and recurring emergency management responsibilities, although not every position requires routine deployment to disaster sites. Your emergency management duties may vary depending on the needs of the Agency, your particular skills, and certain personal circumstances. All positions may require irregular work hours, work at locations other than the official duty station, and may include duties other than those specified in the employee's official position description.

Are you able to meet this commitment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

In order to be hired for this position, applicants must undergo and successfully pass a background investigation. This may include a review of financial issues, such as delinquency, child support and/or tax obligations, as well as certain criminal offenses and illegal use of or possession of drugs.

Are you willing to undergo a background investigation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Your responses to the questions below will be used in the evaluation of your qualifications for this position. Your resume and application materials must support the level of experience and/or education you claim in this questionnaire, if after a complete review of your application package, a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications, you may be rated ineligible for this position.
1. Grade 13: Do you have one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the GS-12 level, as described in the vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Have you briefed a senior official (organization or agency leadership) on emergency preparedness or continuity of operations?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. From the list below, select the emergency management directive(s) you have worked within.
 A. National Security Strategy
 B. Presidential Policy Directives
 C. Homeland Security Presidential Directives
 D. National Mitigation Framework
 E. National Incident Management System
 F. National Response Framework
 G. National Disaster Recovery Framework
 H. None of the above
4. Indicate the extent of your experience in developing and interpreting policy on designated programs.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted and provided input to my superiors or subject-matter experts concerning the development of a new policy or the application of a new policy to a specific program.
 C. I have drafted and/or studied proposals for the implementation of new policies or provided recommendations for the application of policies to a specific program.
 D. I have independently developed and implemented new policies that impacted a specific program or interpreted the program response to far reaching policy directives.
5. From the list below, select the policy(ies) you have experience applying in your work activities.
 A. National Incident Management System (NIMS)/Incident Command System (ICS)
 B. National Response Framework
 C. National Response Plan
 D. National Preparedness Goal
 E. Homeland Security Exercise and Evaluation Program
 F. None of the above
6. Select the response(s) that describe(s) professional experience(s) with national preparedness initiatives. Select all that apply.
 A. Provides technical direction and guidance on preparedness policies, strategies or related activities.
 B. Assists in the evaluation of preparedness programs or policies.
 C. Provides technical advice on process improvement practices.
 D. Provides technical advice on process improvement after action reporting.
 E. Provides guidance to internal or external customers concerning unprecedented emergency planning and preparedness policies, strategies or related activities.
 F. Reviews legislation on preparedness programs or resources.
 G. Recommend solutions to shortfalls or challenges related to programs, strategies or related activities.
 H. None of the above.
7. From the list below, select the statement(s) that describe(s) your experience interpreting and communicating policies, procedures, regulations, program research and policy analysis with internal and external stakeholders.
 A. I have experience developing and implementing a communications strategy for policies, procedures, business plans, and departmental activities.
 B. I have experience interpreting, and effectively communicating policies, procedures, and regulations.
 C. I have experience preparing oral and written reports and presentations, with collateral materials to support the understanding of policies, procedures and regulations (i.e., graphs, charts, and reports that are clear concise and effective).
 D. I have experience developing complex analytical documents evaluating programs or policies.
 E. I have experience developing policy guidance notices, procedures, briefing papers or talking points for senior managers.
 F. I have developed research papers that analyze various industry practices around specific programs or policies.
 G. None of the above.
8. From the list below, select four statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience communicating with stakeholders.
 A. I have communicated leadership priorities to team members.
 B. I have interpreted policy to provide guidance to junior staff members.
 C. I have reported team activities to leadership.
 D. I have provided situational awareness briefings to senior leadership to inform decision-making.
 E. I have performed as a spokesperson at conferences and/or committees focused on emergency management activities.
 F. I have represented my organization by responding to technical questions from senior leadership in an organization.
 G. I have reported on the overall effectiveness of a program’s success to senior leaders.
 H. I have acted as the main point of contact for my organization in meetings with Federal, State, local, tribal, and/or territorial stakeholders.
 I. I have developed and conducted training to educate people on emergency management topics.
 J. None of the above.
9. Select all of the following responses that describe your customer service experience:
 A. Identified and documented issues for future resolution.
 B. Mediated customer complaints.
 C. Provided customer feedback on work products.
 D. Provided guidance and direction on specific organizational areas.
 E. None of the above.
10. Select all responses that describe your experience representing the interests of a program or function under your direct responsibility:
 A. Maintained collaborative relationships with personnel in peer or senior positions in other organizations, departments, or agencies.
 B. Led projects that crossed organizational or agency boundaries.
 C. Served as a team member on projects that cross organizational or agency boundaries.
 D. Represented the organization at inter-agency meetings.
 E. Maintained relationships with various federal, state, and/or local stakeholders.
 F. None of the above.
11. From the list below, select statement(s) that describe(s) your experience representing your agency or organization.
 A. I have represented my organization to external audiences.
 B. I have liaised with government representatives of various levels of authority from outside of your organization to exchange information.
 C. None of the above.
12. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describes the management duties you have performed on a regular basis. (select all that apply)
 A. Planned work for subordinates, set priorities, and/or provided completion deadlines.
 B. Assigned work to subordinates based on assignment difficulty and/or employee capability.
 C. Worked with employees to identify their developmental needs based on organizational goals.
 D. Communicated broad objectives to subordinate supervisors for implementation.
 E. Selected candidates for positions within my organization after interviewing them.
 F. I have counseled and/or disciplined employees on performance or conduct issues.
 G. I have recognized and/or rewarded employees for their contributions and/or achievements.
 H. I have developed performance standards and/or evaluated employees' work.
 I. I have resolved office conflicts through mediation or other forms of alternative dispute resolutions.
 J. None of the above.
13. Have you prepared analyses on budget materials?
 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Do you have experience serving in a leadership role in order to manage personnel involved in emergency management activities that have a national or very broad impact?
 A. Yes
 B. No
15. Select the statement(s) that describe your experience providing leadership direction.
 A. I have provided leadership one-on-one with colleagues on business issues.
 B. I have provided direction as the leader of a task-based team.
 C. I have provided counseling to staff as a supervisor.
 D. I have provided leadership direction for national programs.
 E. I have provided leadership direction to senior officials to resolve national program challenges.
 F. None of the above.
16. Please indicate where and when you obtained each of the specialized experience requirements listed in the Qualifications section of this Job Opportunity Announcement. Include in your response: (1) the area of specialized experience; (2) the place of employment; and, (3) the specific dates of employment the experience was gained in MM/DD/YYYY - MM/DD/YYYY format. Your response must be supported by your resume.

Example: Experience in developing and delivering presentations and training; ABC Company; 10/01/2016 - 05/15/2018.
17. Please take this opportunity to review your question responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you understand this statement, have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected