Position Title
Diagnostic Rad Tech (Gen)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSY-12789015-25-KW Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, August 26, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
5. Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Name and Contact Information
Job title
Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2021)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week if part-time)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held.
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

Do you confirm that the above information is clearly stated for each work entry you are claiming experience for, and that each entry is full time unless otherwise annotated with part-time hours?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. I understand that this position is not remote; if selected, I understand I am required to be on-site at a VISN 23 facility and I am able to physically report to a VISN 23 facility. This is not negotiable.
Please select 'no' if you are not interested in a position on-site within VISN 23.
 A. Yes
 B. No
If applying as an internal or status candidate with current or former Federal Service, you must provide a copy of your most recent non-award SF-50, "Notification of Personnel Action", showing the highest grade or promotion potential held, dated within the last year.

All qualifying experience you possess must be clearly described in your application package. We will not make assumptions when reviewing applications. Failure to demonstrate your experience and knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) in your application may result in disqualification. It is strongly recommended that you write to each KSA to demonstrate how you have gained each one in your application package or on a supplemental document. Please see the announcement for KSA requirements.

Assessment 1
BASIC REQUIREMENTS

*Citizenship. Be a citizen of the United States. (Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified candidates in accordance with VA Handbook 5005, Part II, chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3g.)
*Certification. All applicants must be certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (ARRT) (R). Advanced ARRT certification is required for assignments that include computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or Mammography (M) duties performed independently, as applicable.
*Education. Completion of a full-time training course of at least 24 months in duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from other accrediting agencies as recognized by the Department of Education (DOE).
*Grandfathering Provision. All persons employed in VHA as a DRT on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education and certification that are part of the basic requirements of the DRT occupation.
*Physical Requirements. State in the announcement.
*English Language Proficiency. DRTs must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), and7407(d).
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Diagnostic Radiologic Technician (GS-5)

Experience or Education: None beyond the basic requirements, which are:

Certification: All applicants must be certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (ARRT) (R). Non-certified DRTs who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for ARRT (R) certification may be given a temporary appointment as a graduate DRT under the authority of 38 U.S.C. ? 7405(c)(2)(B). (This exception only applies at the GS-5 Entry Level Technician)
Education: Completion of a full-time training course of at least 24 months in duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from other accrediting agencies as recognized by the Department of Education (DOE).

Do you meet or exceed these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist (GS-6)

Experience or Education. At least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level or the successful completion of one full academic year of graduate education leading to a degree in radiography or other directly related field to diagnostic radiology/imaging.

AND

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Knowledge of basic technique standards for minimum radiographic exposure.
Knowledge of anatomy and positioning.
Knowledge of all patient safety procedures.
Knowledge of radiographic producing equipment.
Ability to learn basic computer functions.

Do you meet or exceed these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist (GS-7)

Experience or Education: At least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level that demonstrates the clinical competencies described at that level; Examples of experience includes but may not be limited to:
Applied knowledge of basic technique standards for minimum radiographic exposure.
Applied knowledge of anatomy and positioning.
Applied knowledge of all patient safety procedures.
Applied knowledge of radiographic producing equipment.
Utilizing basic computer functions.

OR: The successful completion of one full academic year of graduate education leading to a degree in radiography or other directly related field to diagnostic radiology/imaging; or successful completion of an advanced registry program, with certification, in addition to a 4-year baccalaureate degree program in radiography or other directly related field to diagnostic radiology/imaging. Education may relate to the duties of a specific position or to the occupation but must be appropriate for the position being filled.

AND

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Knowledge of the technical adequacy of the digital image, including the ability to adjust the image quality in the digital system.
Knowledge of different contrast material required for the requested study.
Knowledge of radiation protection standards, minimum radiographic exposure techniques, appropriate beam limitation to anatomical area, and employing lead shielding when performing standard radiographic and fluoroscopic procedures.
Knowledge of computed radiography, CR readers and Digital Imaging systems.
Knowledge of PACS and basic computer skills.

Do you meet or exceed these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist (GS-8)

Experience. At least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level that demonstrates the clinical competencies described at that level. Experience may include but not be limited to:
Applied knowledge of the technical adequacy of the digital image, including the ability to adjust the image quality in the digital system.
Applied knowledge of different contrast material required for the requested study.
Applied knowledge of radiation protection standards, minimum radiographic exposure techniques, appropriate beam limitation to anatomical area, and employing lead shielding when performing standard radiographic and fluoroscopic procedures.
Applied knowledge of computed radiography, CR readers and Digital Imaging systems.
Applied Knowledge of PACS and basic computer skills.

AND

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Ability to check system for operation and assess acceptable performance based on established guidelines.
Knowledge of calibration parameters and the ability to make adjustments as needed.
Knowledge of patient's clinical record, diagnosis, and laboratory results.
Ability to monitor patient's physiologic changes during the procedure and keep the radiologist informed.
Skill in using tact, diplomacy, and courtesy in dealings with the customer base, patients, staff, family, visitors, and volunteers.
Knowledge of anatomy and physiology, and cross-sectional anatomy, recognizing unusual images, and determining proper positioning to best demonstrate areas of interest.

Do you meet or exceed these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected