Position Title
New Parent Support Home Visitor
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
EUR26-017 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, October 28, 2025 to Friday, November 7, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0101 - Social Science
 B. 0185 - Social Work
 C. 0610 - Nurse


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the New Parent Support Home Visitor position. Failure to meet the basic requirement(s) and specialized experience or failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Basic Requirements: 0101
Which of the following education and/or experience do you have in order to meet the requirements for this position in the 0101 series? NOTE: Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position, if you are qualifying based on education.
 I have a bachelor's degree or higher in behavioral or social science; or related discipline as appropriate to the position, such as Marriage and Family Therapy; Mental Health Counseling; or completion of a degree from a program accredited by the Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Education Programs (CACREP) AND at least 2 years of direct experience in the prevention intervention, or treatment of child abuse or domestic abuse, or the provision of maternal or child health support services.
 I have a combination of education and experience that provided knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field, including at least 2 years of direct experience in the prevention intervention, or treatment of child abuse or domestic abuse, or the provision of maternal or child health support services
 I have four years of appropriate experience that demonstrates acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field, including at least 2 years of direct experience in the prevention intervention, or treatment of child abuse or domestic abuse, or the provision of maternal or child health support services.
 I have none of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Basic Requirements: 0185
Do you have a master's degree in social work from a school accredited by the Council on Social Work Education AND 2 years of direct experience in the prevention intervention, or treatment of child abuse or domestic abuse, or the provision of maternal or child health support services? NOTE: Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


3.
Basic Requirements: 0610
Which of the following education and/or experience do you have in order to meet the requirements for the 0610 series? NOTE: Transcripts and current/valid licensure must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position. Additionally, bachelor's degree in nursing must be from an accredited professional nursing education program. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Education Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained.  Official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required for individuals who graduated from foreign nursing schools.
 I have a bachelor's degree in nursing as described above; AND, National Council Licensure Examination; AND, Possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States; AND,  PhD or equivalent doctoral degree from a professional nursing educational program or related medical science field; AND, At least 2 years of direct experience in child abuse or domestic abuse, maternal or child health, community health, or mental health.
 I have a bachelor's degree in nursing as described above; AND, National Council Licensure Examination; AND, Possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States; AND, A minimum of three full years of professional nursing experience; AND, At least 2 years of direct experience in child abuse or domestic abuse, maternal or child health, community health, or mental health.
 I have none of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Specialized Experience: 0101/0185 
Do you have a minimum of three years of specialized experience providing positive parenting practices?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙