Position Title
Management and Program Analyst
Agency
Department of Energy - Agency Wide
Announcement Number
25-MA-00912-12764541-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, July 11, 2025 to Tuesday, July 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current career/career-conditional federal employee at the Department of Energy applying for a PROMOTION to a position with a higher grade/pay band or higher promotion potential than you previously held on a permanent basis?

Note: also select "Yes" if applying for a change-to-lower grade (CTLG) to a position with higher promotion potential than you previously held on a permanent basis.

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current career/career-conditional federal employee at the Department of Energy applying for a REASSIGNMENT, CHANGE-TO-LOWER GRADE, or REPROMOTION and you currently or previously held a position with the same grade/pay band or higher and the same or higher promotion potential on a permanent basis?

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
This position may have pre-employment requirements and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, possession of, and the ability to obtain and maintain these requirements and conditions.
1. Do any of your relatives work for the agency to which you are applying? If so, please list any applicable names below. Please enter N/A in the text box, if not Applicable. (Include: father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, and half sister).
2. Are you currently serving or have you served under a Political Appointment in the Federal Government within the last five (5) years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Please list the title, agency and dates of the appointments
4. I understand that the responses in this questionnaire must be fully supported in my online resume. I further understand that my resume must provide detailed descriptions and/or examples of my knowledge and competencies as required in the vacancy announcement, and that my failure to do so may result in my being rated "ineligible" or "not qualified" for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you currently receiving an annuity from the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) for FERS or CSRS service as a retired U.S. Federal civilian employee?
 A. Yes, I understand that if selected I will need to provide a copy of my annuitant statement from the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) and my salary may be reduced by the amount of my annuity.
 B. No, I am not a Federal annuitant.
6. When this departmental element completes their selections, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with hiring managers and Human Resources specialists within the Department of Energy who are hiring for similar positions. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement. There is no guarantee of further consideration, and you can continue to explore other job opportunity announcements.
 A. I consent to having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other departmental elements within the Department of Energy. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 B. I only want to be considered by this departmental element within the Department of Energy. I opt-out of having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with additional departmental elements within the Department of Energy.
7. Instructions: To provide the hiring manager an opportunity to consider your accomplishments, you may submit/attach copies of your performance appraisals and/or incentive award justification as part of your application by uploading these documents into USA Staffing.


All current Federal employees must have at least a fully successful or equivalent performance rating or higher, to be considered for competitive placement. Competitive Federal employees who have a current unacceptable performance rating will be excluded from consideration.
 A. I am a current Federal employee, my last performance rating was fully successful (meets expectations) or equivalent, or higher.
 B. I am a current Federal employee; my last performance rating was unacceptable (fails to meet expectations).
 C. I am a new Federal employee and have not received a performance rating as of the date of this application.
 D. I am not a Federal employee; however, I will consider attaching my recent performance appraisal from my employer for consideration.
 E. I am not a Federal employee, and I do not have any performance documentation to submit for consideration.
8. Have you received awards or been recognized as part of your annual performance appraisal for work that was based on one or more of the competencies described in this vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. I understand that this is NOT a remote position and that I will be required to report to the office a certain number of days per pay period.
 A. Yes, I understand and still want to be considered for this position.
 B. No, I am only interested in remote work and no longer want to be considered for this position.
10. I declare under penalty of perjury, that all statements contained in this application and any accompanying documents are true and correct, with full knowledge that all statements made in this application are subject to investigation and that any false or dishonest answer to any question may be grounds for disqualification and loss of consideration.
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. I have read this Vacancy Announcement thoroughly and understand that supplemental documentation may be required. I further understand that I will not be considered if my supplemental documentation is not received in the Servicing Personnel Office by the closing date of the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Management and Program Analyst position with Department of Energy.  Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Are you a competitive or non-competitive federal employee serving in a career or career-conditional appointment in the Department of Energy?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. GS-13 - Choose the answer that best describes your experience.
 A. I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service as described as: Performing human resources activities for executive and non-executive staff (e.g., coordinating position descriptions, recruitment, onboarding, promotions, details, etc.); Coordinating audits (IG/GAO) for the organization such as monitoring the progress of audit recommendations and ensuring timely implementation of follow-up actions; and Maintaining effective relationships with senior management, supervisors, peers, and other internal and external organizations.
 B. I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service as described as: Assisting with human resources activities for non-executive staff (e.g., coordinating position descriptions, recruitment, onboarding, promotions, details, etc.); Recording IG/GAO audits for recordkeeping purposes; and Providing administrative support to staff, internal and external customers.
 C. None of the above apply. I understand I do not meet the minimum qualifications requirement for this grade and my application will not be considered further at this grade.
3. Indicate the job(s) (i.e., title, name of employer, dates of employment) listed on your resume that support your self-ratings to the questions above.  Be specific, do NOT say "see resume".  Your self-ratings will be validated against this information and may be lowered if your resume does not support your self-ratings.
4. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected