Position Title
Mission Support Specialist
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OFO-IMP-12763044-KMK Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 16, 2025 to Tuesday, July 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1.
Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from DHS?  If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
9
11
2. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-7 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-7 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-7 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-9 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
3. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-9 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-9 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-9 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-11 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
4. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
6. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
7. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
8. In addition to the application and application questionnaire, this position requires a USA Hire online assessment, which measures critical general competencies required to perform the job. If you are required to take the USA Hire assessment, you will be emailed a unique URL to access the USA Hire system. The USA Hire online assessment must be completed within 48 hours, following the close of this announcement. You will have the opportunity to request a testing accommodation for the assessment should you have a disability covered under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). See the How to Apply and Next Steps within the Job Opportunity Announcement for additional details.

Do you acknowledge that you may be required to take an additional online USA Hire assessment, via an email link sent to you after completion of this application, and that failure to complete any portion of the assessment will remove your application from consideration?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that by not taking the additional required USA Hire assessment that I will be removed from further consideration.
Assessment 1
The following question will only be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following best describes your experience and/or education to qualify for the GS-09 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes assisting with the process of handling complaints and assisting with office response to complaints/grievances/arbitrations; assisting with sensitive management referrals that are remanded for resolution relating to labor management; preparing and tracking a variety of reports and studies from a variety of automated systems and identifying discrepancies; handling incoming and outgoing office correspondence.
 B. I have successfully completed a master's or equivalent degree or two (2) years of progressively higher level graduate education from an accredited college or university or an LL.B. or J.D., if related that demonstrates the skills necessary to do the work. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 C. I have a combination of successfully completed education and experience that is at least 100% as described in the Combining Experience and Education statement in the announcement posting. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 D. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
2. Which of the following best describes your experience and/or education to qualify for the GS-11 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes assisting the Injury Compensation Coordinator with the workers’ compensation program for the port and with the initial processing of the claims; managing the in/out box for the manager, including correspondence relating to Bargaining Unit grievances, management referrals, and oral replies; assisting in the research of procurement resources and techniques to effectively and efficiently execute a supply program that supports port operations; recommending ways to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of work operations.
 B. I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or three (3) full years of full-time graduate education or an LL.M in an appropriate discipline from an accredited college of university. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 C. I have a combination of successfully completed education and experience that is at least 100% as described in the Combining Experience and Education statement in the announcement posting. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 D. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
3. Indicate the extent of your experience taking inventory of local property.

 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have completed training related to physical inventory and reporting but have not applied this in my work.
 C. I have assisted in performing physical inventory and reporting inventory status.
 D. I have independently performed physical inventory and reported the inventory status to include missing items, and items not listed on the inventory.
4. Indicate the extent to which you have formulated budget estimates and funding requirements needed to support projects.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have some experience formulating budget estimates and funding requirements needed to support small-scale projects, taking into account staffing, facilities, and equipment.
 C. I have developed and prepared budgets, budget requests, and funding requirements needed to support a large and complex project, taking into account staffing, facilities, and equipment.
5. Indicate the extent to which you have verified the accuracy of data.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have reviewed small data sets to identify errors and inconsistencies.
 C. I have reviewed large and complex data sets and have resolved errors, reconciled inconsistencies, and ensured conformity with organizational standards.
6. Indicate the extent to which you have gathered and analyzed facts, defined problems, and identified solutions.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have gathered data/information in preparation for analysis by others.
 C. I have gathered data/information, analyzed it, and summarized the results of my findings.
 D. I have gathered data/information, performed analyses, summarized results, and identified problem areas.
 E. I have gathered statistical data and narrative information, performed analyses, summarized results, identified problem areas, and proposed/implemented solutions.
7. Indicate the extent of your experience in providing customer service to clients.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have responded to routine questions from clients and made slight modifications to a product or system to meet their needs.
 C. I have provided customer service to clients with complex or time-sensitive requests. I have made modifications to products or systems to ensure the client's needs are met.
 D. I have had extensive experience providing customer service to a large number of clients with complex or time-sensitive requests. I have readjusted priorities to respond to pressing and changing demands. In addition, I have anticipated challenges and determined alternative solutions.
8. Indicate the extent of your experience in using Microsoft Office software.

 A. I have had no training in or experience with Microsoft Office software.
 B. I am familiar with the basic capabilities of Microsoft Office software, to include Word, Excel, Access, and PowerPoint. I have used at least one of these software products in the course of my daily job.
 C. I have experience using multiple software products from Microsoft Office (e.g., Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint). I have used at least two or more of these software products during the course of my daily job.
 D. I have extensive experience using multiple software products from Microsoft Office (e.g., Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint). Because of my expert knowledge, I frequently provide formal or informal training to my coworkers on the software product(s).
9. Indicate the extent of your ability to communicate with all levels of managers, staff members, and outside groups.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have communicated with other staff members and managers in the routine performance of my duties.
 C. I have conducted meetings with and provided training for staff members or outside groups.
 D. I have provided briefings within my own organization or to external groups or organizations.
 E. I have represented a program or organization in high-level conferences or meetings, or I have acted as a liaison to external groups or organizations.
10. Indicate the extent of your experience communicating in writing.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written portions of reports, information papers, and other documents dealing with general or technical subject matter.
 C. I have independently composed written reports, information papers, memoranda, policies/procedures, and other complete documents dealing with technical and specialized subject matter.
 D. I have independently composed written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, formal briefings, and other complete documents dealing with complex, technical, and specialized subject matter.
11. Indicate the extent of your experience in planning and organizing work.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had limited experience in planning and organizing work for a small team.
 C. I have planned and organized the day-to-day work of my immediate work unit on a continuous basis.
 D. I have overseen the planning and organization of work for my organization and developed standards for continuous improvement.
 E. I have overseen the mid- to long-range (i.e., quarterly or annual) planning and organization of work for my immediate work unit and in coordination with other organizational units when there were complicating factors (e.g., conflicting priorities, work involving multiple disciplines).
12. Indicate the extent to which you have developed and maintained effective relationships with individuals internal and external to your work group, office, and organization.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have maintained relationships with individuals in my work group or office, primarily in the completion of my regular job duties or in my response to specific inquiries.
 C. I have maintained relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group and office to exchange information, resolve problems, or participate in teams.
 D. I have developed and maintained extensive relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group, office, and organization to resolve problems, plan team projects, and establish long-term working relationships.
13. Indicate the extent of your experience in establishing and adjusting priorities for team and group projects.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have established priorities for a team or group project and I have made adjustments to accommodate unexpected changes in project resources, project goals, or changes in the work place.
 C. I have established priorities for projects involving multiple teams or organizations and I have made adjustments to accommodate sudden major changes, problems, or setbacks.
14. Indicate the extent of your experience in responding to new information, changing conditions, or unexpected obstacles.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have adapted to minor or temporary changes affecting my own assignments or work schedule by rescheduling work or refocusing my efforts.
 C. I have rearranged some priorities and rescheduled a significant amount of work to accommodate changes in resources or goals. I have recommended new methods in situations in which established procedures were unavailable or inapplicable.
 D. I have rearranged virtually all work priorities and schedules to accommodate sudden major changes, problems, or setbacks. I have chosen or developed new methods in situations in which established procedures were unavailable or inapplicable.
15. Select the choice that best describes your ability to train others.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have been responsible for providing informal on-the-job training to peers.
 C. I have identified training needs and provided recommendations on appropriate training content and methods for peers or subordinates.
 D. I have been responsible for developing and conducting formalized internal training programs.
 E. I have extensive experience developing and conducting formalized training programs for internal and external groups.
16. Indicate the extent of your experience in working in work-related teams.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have participated as a team member, receiving task assignments and project goals from my supervisor or team leader.
 C. I have served as a team leader, communicating task assignments and project goals to team members and monitoring progress.
 D. I have led several teams, ensuring that team members met project goals and deadlines and evaluating individual team member performance.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected