Position Title
Supervisory Contract Specialist
Agency
U.S. Marshals Service
Announcement Number
DE-12752596-25-NZ Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 8, 2025 to Monday, July 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former Department of Justice federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? To be eligible you must:
Meet the definition of 'surplus' or 'displaced' employee, as defined in 330.602;
Have a duty station in the local commuting area of the vacancy;
Have a performance rating of at least Fully Successful or equivalent;
Be applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you're being separated; and
Be applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you're being separated.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit the following:
RIF separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; 
Copy of your latest performance rating; and
Copy of your most recent SF-50: Notification of Personnel Action showing your position, grade and step, tenure code, and duty location.
See the Career Transition Assistance site on USAJOBS for more information about CTAP. 

Based on the above, are you eligible and would you like to be considered for selection priority under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes the experience and/or education that you possess which demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position. Your resume MUST show that you possess the necessary experience and/or education in order to be found qualified.
1. Applicants must meet one of the following basic requirements to qualify for this position. From the descriptions below, choose the letter that BEST describes how you meet the basic requirement for the 1102 series at the GS-14 grade level.

 A. I have successfully completed all mandatory training prescribed by the head of the agency for progression to GS-13 or higher level contracting positions, including at least 4-years of experience in contracting or related positions. At least 1 year of that experience must have been specialized experience at or equivalent to work at the next lower level of the position, and must have provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the work of the position AND A 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree, that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. NOTE: Applicants must submit a copy of their transcripts for verification.
 B. I have an exception to this requirement based on the following: Employees in GS-1102 positions will be considered to have met the standard for positions they occupy on January 1, 2000. This also applies to positions at the same grade in the same agency or other agencies if the specialized experience requirements are met. However, they will have to meet the basic requirements and specialized experience requirements in order to qualify for promotion to a higher grade. (MUST SUBMIT YOUR SF-50(s) to verify you meet this provision)
 C. I do not have the education/training or meet the exception as described above and do not qualify for this position.
2. Applicants must have the specialized experience in the amounts shown below to be considered for this position. From the descriptions below, choose the letter that best describes the highest level of experience you have that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position. (Note: One year of specialized experience is based on a 40-hour workweek. If you have worked less than 40 hours per week, you must prorate your experience).

 A. I have at least one year (12 - months) of full-time specialized experience at or equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service performing duties which include the following: 1.) Planning, developing, and establishing of the best contractual strategies in support of the agency's requirements; 2.) Planning and coordinating work to be accomplished by subordinates to include setting priorities; and 3.) Preparing applicable documents to execute contractual actions. (NOTE: Your resume must CLEARLY demonstrate this experience).
 B. I do not have the experience as described above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected