Position Title
Marine Machinery Mechanic Leader
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
20250731-51359-009753-MW-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 12, 2025 to Monday, September 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a United States Citizen?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. Which leader/supervisory tasks have you performed?
 A. Assigning work
 B. Inspecting work in progress
 C. Inspecting completed work
 D. Planning and ordering material for job assignments
 E. Ensuring jobs were completed as scheduled
 F. None of the above
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
2. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience instructing others on rigging and load handling techniques sufficient to allow employees to interface with the weight handling equipment?
 A. I know little or nothing about this.
 B. I have had study or training in this.
 C. I have used my knowledge or ability, but I have been closely supervised.
 D. I have used my knowledge or ability on my own, under normal supervision.
 E. I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs.
3. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience locating and correcting hard-to-find malfunctions
 A. I know little or nothing about this.
 B. I have had study or training in this.
 C. I have used my knowledge or ability, but I have been closely supervised.
 D. I have used my knowledge or ability on my own, under normal supervision.
 E. I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs.
4. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience improvising procedures and techniques or developing new ones to determine the cause of deficient operation?
 A. I know little or nothing about this.
 B. I have had study or training in this.
 C. I have used my knowledge or ability, but I have been closely supervised.
 D. I have used my knowledge or ability on my own, under normal supervision.
 E. I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs.
5. Which equipment/assemblies have you had installed, maintained, and repaired?
 A. Diesel engine
 B. Fuel pump and injectors
 C. Pumps
 D. Compressors, feed pumps and condensers
 E. Propellers (conventional and controllable pitch)
 F. Steering assemblies
 G. Main shafting
 H. Power drives
 I. Propellers, rudders, and sea valves
 J. Launching and arresting gear systems
 K. Turbo chargers and blowers
 L. Generators
 M. Hydraulic systems
 N. None of the above
6. Which statement best describes your highest level of exoerience troubleshooting, disassembling, and making on-site repairs to marine diesel engines
 A. I have completed education or training in how to perform this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 B. I have assisted with or performed this task at the apprentice level, under close supervision.
 C. I have performed this task, under normal supervision.
 D. I am consulted by other journeymen in difficult situations or am called on to perform unusually difficult jobs related to this topic.
 E. None of the above.
7. Which precision measuring devices have you used to ensure that marine machinery was properly installed, repaired, maitained, operated, and adjusted?
 A. Inside and outside micrometers
 B. Micrometers
 C. Dial indicators
 D. Telescoping gauges
 E. Feeler gauges
 F. Timing tools
 G. Calipers
 H. Straight edge and strain gauges
 I. None of the above
8. Which tools/equipment have you used?
 A. Drills
 B. Flange facing machines
 C. Grinders
 D. Small boring bars
 E. Cutting
 F. None of the above
9. Which of the following statements best describes your experience in selecting the proper materials to use for specific purposes involved in the installation , repair, maintenance, adjustment and testing of hydraulic systems?
 A. I know little or nothing about this.
 B. I have used my knowledge or ability at the apprentice level, and have been closely supervised.
 C. I have independently used my knowledge or ability on my own, under normal supervision.
 D. I am consulted by other journeymen in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs.
 E. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
10. Which activities have you performed at work?
 A. Heavy lifting
 B. Standing for long periods of time
 C. Kneeling for long periods of time
 D. Working in tight and cramped spaces
 E. None of the above
11. Select the functional areas in which you have job experience at the journeyman level.
 A. Electrician
 B. Welder
 C. Sheet Metal Mechanic
 D. A/C Equipment Mechanic
 E. Marine Machinery Mechanic
 F. Painter
 G. Sandblaster
 H. Pipefitter
 I. None of the above
12. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience interpreting and applying blueprints, diagrams and other drawings?
 A. I have completed education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 B. I have assisted with or performed this task at the apprentice level, under close supervision.
 C. I have performed this task, under normal supervision.
 D. I am consulted by other journeymen in difficult situations, or am called on to perform unusually difficult jobs related to this topic.
 E. None of the above.
13. For which equipment/assemblies have you assised with the installation or alignment?
 A. Main propulsion machinery
 B. Reduction gears
 C. Transmissions, shafts and propellers
 D. Pump, compressors, condensers, and heat exchangers
 E. None of the above
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected