Position Title
Contract Specialist
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
20250723-87200-MB-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 18, 2025 to Wednesday, August 27, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a United States Citizen?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. Choose one answer that best describes your education as related to the occupational requirement for this position. Basic Education Requirement.
 A. A 4-yer course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with a major in any field.
 B. At least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods or organization and management.
 C. I do not meet any of the requirements described above.
2. To meet the additional qualification requirements for GS-09, select the option that best describes your education and/or experience:
 A. I have one full year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-7 level. Examples: developing procurement plans; preparing and issuing solicitation documents.
 B. I have completed 2 full academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education or master's or equivalent graduate degree or LL.B or J.D., if related OR combination of education and experience. To qualify for GS-1102 positions based on graduate education, graduate education in one or a combination of the following fields is required: accounting, business, finance, law contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management.
 C. I have a combination of specialize experience at the GS-07 level and graduate education as described above that equates to one year of experience.
 D. I do not meet any of the requirements described above.
3. What level of Federal Acquisition in Contracting Certification (FAC-C) or Defense Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act (DAWIA) certification do you possess?
 A. I possess a current Level I FAC-C/DAWIA certification.
 B. I possess a current Level II FAC-C/DAWIA certification.
 C. I possess a current Level III FAC-C/DAWIA certification.
 D. I previously held a Level I FAC-C/DAWIA certification.
 E. I previously held a Level II FAC-C/DAWIA certification.
 F. I previously held a Level III FAC-C/DAWIA certification.
 G. I do not nor have I ever possessed a FAC-C/DAWIA certification at any level
4. Which response best describes your highest level of experience interpreting and applying Federal procurement and acquisition regulations and policies?
 A. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
5. Have you identified strategies to balance the factors that influenced acquisition operations and support activities?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Which statement best reflects your highest level of experience managing a Federal government acquisition program?
 A. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected