Position Title
Program Analyst
Agency
Missile Defense Agency
Announcement Number
MDA-26-12828467-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, November 5, 2025 to Wednesday, November 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Redstone Arsenal, AL
 B. Dahlgren, VA
 C. Fort Belvoir, VA


Announcement Screen-out
1.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the description below, select the letter that best describes your level of specialized experience.

 I have one year of specialized experience at the next lower grade (NH-03/GS-13) or equivalent in the federal service (experience may have been gained in the private sector) in 3 of following 5 Specialized Experiences. Specialized Experience is defined as: Experience utilizing defense acquisition practices, the sequences and timing of key program events and milestones, and methods of evaluating the work of program accomplishments in order to develop and provide analyses. Experience utilizing qualitative and/or quantitative methods; advance management and organizational practices; and planning and evaluating complex program functions to assess and improve program effectiveness in meeting established goals, measures, and objectives. Experience working with and across executive staffs, joint staffs, commands, agencies, and the services in the development of the organization's primary mission, goals, and objectives. Experience utilizing policy and doctrine aspects of complex weapons program and the National Security policy-making environment. Experience utilizing processes, products, terminology, and guidance documents to be able to design and conduct independent assessments to identify potential issues and to ensure full compliance with DoD guidance and Agency strategies and policies.
 My experience does not meet the requirements listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙