Position Title
Marketing Specialist
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12759411 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 7, 2025 to Sunday, July 20, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Bremerton, WA
 B. Keyport, WA
2. I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Hours of Operation
1. This position generally works during regular working hours, however, may be subject to an irregular schedule, including nights, weekends and/or holidays in support of the activities serviced. Are you able to fulfill this scheduling need?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the position of Marketing Specialist for Command, Navy Region Northwest.  Please complete the following questionnaire to the best of your ability.  

*Answers must be reflected in your resume*
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you possess a degree from an accredited university or college with a course of study in marketing, public relations, communications, journalism, or related field -OR- five years of marketing experience that demonstrates the ability to design, plan, implement and evaluate goal-oriented marketing and public relations campaigns?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Please share your length of experience designing, planning, implementing and evaluating goal-oriented and public relations campaigns.
 A. I have 5 or more years of experience in this competency.
 B. I have 3-5 years of experience in this competency.
 C. I have 1-3 years of experience in this competency.
 D. I have less than 1 year of experience in this competency.
 E. I do not have practical work experience in this competency.
3. Please share your length of experience assisting with coordination of special events, both small and large in audience.
 A. I have at least 5 years of experience in this competency.
 B. I have 3-5 years of experience in this competency.
 C. I have 1-3 years of experience in this competency.
 D. I have less than 1 year of experience in this competency.
 E. I have no practical experience in this competency.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. Are you proficient in your knowledge of proper grammar, spelling, and standard writing styles?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected