Position Title
Health Technician
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSU-12817087-26-TM Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, October 20, 2025 to Thursday, October 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Health Technician GS-0640-6/7 position with the Veterans Health Administration. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.


The Health Technician GS-0640 Series does require an Individual Occupation Requirement that will need to be met. Your resume will be reviewed to ensure the Individual Occupational Requirement is met, which can be through either Specialized Experience or Education. The Individual Occupation Requirement will be required to be met IN ADDITION to the required Specialized Experience for the position.


1.
Individual Occupational Requirement:

Specialized Experience (for positions at GS-4 and above): Positions in this series range widely in type and include support duties to medical or health personnel such as audiologists, speech pathologists, medical officers, and optometrists. Therefore, technician experience is experience that requires application of the knowledge, methods, and techniques of the position to be filled.

OR,

Education and Training

For GS-3: Successful completion of l year of study that included study in medical, health, or related fields.
For GS-4: Successful completion of 2 years of study that included at least 12 semester hours in subjects related to the position.
For GS-5: Successful completion of a full 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree, with major study or at least 24 semester hours in subjects directly related to the position.
 Yes, I meet the Individual Occupational Requirement, and understand all information provided is subject to verification.
 No, I do not meet the Individual Occupational Requirement and understand that I will be removed from consideration.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
English Language Proficiency Requirement: Per VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Chapter 3, Section A, Paragraph 3j: No person will be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C., chapter 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA who is not proficient in written and spoken English.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


INSTRUCTIONS: Human Resources will evaluate your resume, supporting documentation, and the responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you meet the minimum qualifications required for this position. RESUME REMINDER - IN DESCRIBING YOUR EXPERIENCE, PLEASE BE CLEAR AND SPECIFIC. WE WILL NOT MAKE ASSUMPTIONS REGARDING YOUR EXPERIENCE. Verbiage displayed on your resume or application must contain your own words. You may refer to position descriptions, i.e. the general and specialized experience located within the vacancy announcement, to assist with describing work experience; however, resumes or applications received in verbatim will not be considered. In your resume you will need to address the general and specialized experience listed below. Please use as much detail as needed, giving dates (months and years) of the experience, position title and how the experience was gained. This information is needed to determine if you are qualified for the position. Resume should include for example: contact information; descriptions of jobs held, including the name and address of employer, job title, description of duties, beginning and ending date (month/year) of employment, average hours worked per week if part-time, and supervisor's name and phone number; education, including name and location of college, dates attended, and type and date of any degree earned; other information such as possession of licenses, certificates, etc. Descriptions of duties must be sufficiently detailed to document the level of experience. Although not mandatory, if the position is (was) with the Federal government, either military or civilian, you should state the series and grade or pay grade (rank) and the date of last promotion. SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE/EDUCATION REQUIREMENT - Applicants must have 52 weeks of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position, and that are typically in or related to the position to be filled. NOTE: We will not make assumptions when reviewing applications. Please see the Required Documents section of the announcement for resume requirements. Your experience must be fully documented in your resume and must include job title, duties, month and year start/end dates AND hours worked per week to receive proper evaluation.


3.
Specialized Experience-GS-06: You must have 1 year (52-weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-05 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Examples of specialized experience would be defined as: Knowledge of medical terminology for the human body, physical and emotional reactions, nursing care, and skill sufficient to provide and gather information in patient care/family conferences and communicate effectively with the healthcare team. Practical knowledge of major body systems to perform patient examination and to provide prompt and efficient patient care and appropriate patient handling. Thorough knowledge of regulations pertaining to the appropriate release of information from patient records. Knowledge and skill are sufficient to change sterile and non-sterile dressing and to maintain the sterile conditions of medical supplies. Working knowledge of diagnostic signs, e.g. pulse, respiration, blood pressure, temperature, skin color, pupils of the eyes, state of consciousness, ability to move on command, reaction to pain etc.
 Yes, I possess 1-Year (52-weeks) of the required Specialized Experience required for the Health Technician, GS-0640. Specialized Experience is defined as; Data entry to include entering specimens into computer, collecting patient specimens, answering questions relative to patient specimens, instructing and assisting patients in specimen collection, performs routine repetitive diagnostic tests and procedures such as venipuncture collection of blood specimens, adhering to safety, infection control, and universal precautions at all times while drawing blood or performing tests, preparing and packaging specimens for shipment, ensuring/verifying correct labeling, patient identification, and appropriate storage temperature.
 No, I do not possess the 1-year of required Specialized Experience and understand that I will be removed from consideration.


4.
Specialized Experience-GS-07: You must have 1 year (52-Weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-06 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Examples of specialized experience are defined as; Knowledge of medical terminology for the human body, physical and emotional reactions, nursing care, and skill sufficient to provide and gather information in patient care/family conferences and communicate effectively with the healthcare team. Practical knowledge of major body systems to perform patient examination and to provide prompt and efficient patient care and appropriate patient handling. Thorough knowledge of regulations pertaining to the appropriate release of information from patient records. Knowledge and skill are sufficient to change sterile and non-sterile dressing and to maintain the sterile conditions of medical supplies. Working knowledge of diagnostic signs, e.g. pulse, respiration, blood pressure, temperature, skin color, pupils of the eyes, state of consciousness, ability to move on command, reaction to pain etc. Knowledge of medications sufficient to properly administer drugs even when direct to do so by licensed staff. Knowledge of proper dosages required in keeping with method of administration. Knowledge of equipment terminology; familiarity with drug terminology; and supply terminology and skills that are sufficient to identify and use equipment, drugs, and supplies properly, and to communicate proper use.
 Yes, I possess the required 1-year (52-weeks) of Specialized Experience as described above.
 No, I do not possess the required 1-year (52-weeks) required Specialized Experience and understand I will be removed from consideration.


Your rating is subject to verification based on the resume, narratives, and other relevant documents you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from federal employment. Please choose A to certify that your answers are accurate and complete.


RESUME REMINDER- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g., June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. You must have one full year of graduate education in course of study in an accredited college or university that includes a major field of study in hospital administration, public health administration, or related fields such as business or public administration with course work in health care administration. OR Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at this level. You must have a combination of specialized experience and education beyond the first 60 semester hours of a course of study leading to a bachelor's degree is creditable toward meeting the specialized experience requirements. Two full academic years of study, or 60 semester hours, beyond the second year is equivalent to l year of specialized experience. Do you meet the education or combination requirement? A. Yes, I meet the one full of graduate education in course of study in an accredited college or university that included a major field of study in hospital administration, public health administration, or related fields such as business or public administration with course work in health care administration. B. Yes, I have a combination of education and experience as described above C. No, I do not meet any of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙