Position Title
Lead Contracting Specialist
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
CNRSE-26-12827338 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 29, 2025 to Wednesday, November 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
Thank you for applying for the Lead Contracting Specialist position with Commander, Navy Installations Command (CNIC). By submitting your application, you acknowledge that you are applying for a Non-Appropriated Fund (NAF) position with a salary range of $25.00 to $30.00 per hour. Please note that the salary offered is based on the qualifications and experience as reflected in your application and is non-negotiable outside of the stated range. We appreciate your interest in this position and look forward to reviewing your application.


1.
Incumbent agrees to acquire an initial contracting warrant within 90 to 120 days to effectively perform duties of the position and understands that failure to do so will results in removal from position.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you reside within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position?

The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 Yes, I reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
 No, I do not reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.


3.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


4.
If you do not current reside within the local commuting area, have you uploaded all required documents for military spouse preference AND claimed the eligibility?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Contracting Specialist, NF-1102-03 position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.

Ensure that your resume and transcript(s) fully support the response you choose for each of the questions below.


1.
Which of the following do you possess?
 A bachelor's degree with a major in any field. (Transcripts must be provided)
 At least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: Accounting, Business, Finance, Law, Contracts, Purchasing, Economics, Industrial Management, Marketing, Quantitative Methods, or Organization and Management. (College Transcripts must be provided)
 I do not possess any of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you have at least 1 year of specialized experience implementing the policies and procedures of contracting in relation to procurement?
 Yes
 No


3.
How many years of experience do you possess in leading/coaching a team that included but not limited to: problem-solving methods and techniques, provided guidance on work practices and procedures, made recommendations and provided input for individual awards, rewards, and recognition for team members annual performance review.
 I possess no experience as described above.
 I possess less than one (1) year of experience as described above.
 I possess between one (1) and three (3) years of experience as described above.
 I possess between three (3) and five (5) years of experience as described above.
 I possess more than five (5) years of experience as described above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have reviewing statements of work, solicitations, and/or contract requirements for supplies and services?
 I possess no experience with the above.
 I possess less than one (1) year of experience with the above.
 I possess between one (1) and three (3) years of experience with the above.
 I possess more than three (3) years of experience with the above.


5.
How many years of experience do you have conducting contract negotiations pertaining to procurement or acquisitions?
 I possess no experience with conducting contract negotiations pertaining to procurement or acquisitions.
 I possess less than one (1) year experience with conducting contract negotiations pertaining to procurement or acquisitions.
 I possess between one (1) and three (3) years' experience with conducting contract negotiations pertaining to procurement or acquisitions.
 I possess more than three (3) years' experience with conducting contract negotiations pertaining to procurement or acquisitions.


6.
How many years of experience do you have reviewing various contract proposals or contract bids to determine a method of procurement (e.g., purchase order, delivery order, or purchase card)
 I do not possess experience with the above stated.
 I possess less than one (1) year experience with the above stated.
 I possess between one (1) and three (3) years' experience with the above stated.
 I possess more than three (3) years' experience with the above stated.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙