Position Title
Health Technician (ophthalmology)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSS-12786229-25-AB Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 27, 2025 to Thursday, September 4, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with Marion, IL VA Health Care System. Your responses, resume, and supporting documentation will be reviewed to determine if you are qualified for the position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documentation. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. Answering "no" to any of the questions may result in an ineligible rating. Answering the occupational questionnaire and submitting your resume does not constitute "Applying". You MUST submit the applicable documents reflected as REQUIRED under the "How to Apply" tab; a detailed resume which includes dates of employment for each position held in month/year to month/year format; the grade level of each position held (if a Federal position); did you work full-time or part-time (if you worked part-time include the number of hours worked per week), and documentation that CLEARLY demonstrates the Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs) listed in the Qualifications section of the Job announcement.
1. BASIC EXPERIENCE and EDUCATION - Select the statement that best describes your experience and education that qualifies you for the Health Technician (Ophthalmology) position. Candidates must meet one of the following options:
EXPERIENCE - One year of experience in a health care field, such as but not limited to nursing, medical assistant, or health technician. OR
EDUCATION - Two years above high school with a minimum of six semester hours directly related to a health care field or associate's degree in a health care related degree. OR
EXPERIENCE/EDUCATION COMBINATION - Equivalent combinations of experience and education are qualifying (It is strongly suggested that you submit a copy of your transcript). Examples are as follows:
Six months of experience in the health care field; and one year above high school; or
Six months of experience in the health care field and successful completion of a course for health care technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or ophthalmology technicians given by the U.S. Armed Forces;
Six months of experience in the health care field and completion of an independent study course in Ophthalmic Medical Assisting.

 A. I possess one year of experience in a health care field, such as but not limited to nursing, medical assistant, or health technician. OR
 B. I possess two years above high school with a minimum of six semester hours directly related to a health care field or associates degree in a health care related degree. OR
 C. I possess an equivalent combination of experience and education. Qualifying examples include: Six (6) months of experience in the health care field; and one (1) year above high school; OR Six (6) months of experience in the health care field and successful completion of a course for health care technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or ophthalmology technicians given by the U.S. Armed Forces; OR Six (6) months of experience in the health care field and completion of an independent study course in Ophthalmic Medical Assisting.
 D. I do not meet any of the basic experience and/or education requirements listed above.
2. CERTIFICATION: All applicants must be certified as a Certified Ophthalmic Assistant (COA) with the Joint Commission on Allied Health Personnel in Ophthalmology (JCAHPO). The COA certification is JCAHPO's entry-level certification examination for a Health Technician (Ophthalmology).Non-certified applicants who otherwise meet the minimum qualification requirements may be appointed as a graduate Health Technician (Ophthalmology) under authority of 38 U.S.C. 7405(c)(2)(B). The appointing official may waive the requirement of certification for a period not to exceed two years for a Health Technician (Ophthalmology) that provides care under the supervision of an Ophthalmologist. The exception only applies to grades below the full performance level. For grade levels at or above the full performance level the candidate must be certified. Failure to obtain COA certification during that period is justification for termination of the temporary appointment and may result in termination of employment.

Please select the response below that best supports your current certification status.

 A. I am Certified Ophthalmic Assistant (COA) with the Joint Commission on Allied Health Personnel in Ophthalmology (JCAHPO).
 B. I am applying under the exception and understand I will only be eligible to be considered for the GS-05, GS-06 and GS-7 level only under an initial temporary appointment and understand I must become certified within two years of my appointment. Failure to obtain certification within two years from date of appointment will result in removal from the Health Technician (Ophthalmology), GS-0640 series and may result in termination of employment.
 C. I do not possess the required certification and do not qualify for this position.
3. Please provide your certification number, expiration date and your name as it appears on the certificate.

Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY - Health Technicians (Ophthalmology) must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d) and 38 U.S.C. 7407(d). Are you proficient in spoken and written English

 A. Yes
 B. No
GRADE DETERMINATIONS: In addition to the Basic Requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met when determining the grade of candidates. Please select an answer pertaining to the following Grade Determination questions.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. GS-5: For the GS-5 level, candidates must meet the basic qualification requirements as identified above. Do you meet the basic qualification requirements?

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. GS-6: For the GS-6 level, candidates must have one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, GS-5.
In addition to the experience required for this position and grade level, candidates must demonstrate all the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):
Knowledge of general outpatient clinical policies and procedures in a healthcare environment;
Ability to obtain, document and record demographic and medical information from patients to develop an accurate medical record;
Ability to use basic ophthalmic equipment;
Knowledge of basic disinfection of non-critical reusable medical equipment.

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. GS-7: For the GS-7 level, candidates must have one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, GS-6.
In addition to the experience required for this position and grade level, candidates must demonstrate all the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):
Knowledge of anatomy and function of the eye and basic ocular pharmacology;
Knowledge of outpatient eye care policies and procedures in a health care environment;
Ability to use basic ophthalmic diagnostic equipment to perform preliminary ocular testing;
Ability to perform minor extraocular surgical assisting; and
Ability to provide eye care patient education.

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. GS-8: For the GS-8 level, candidates must have one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, GS-7.
In addition to the experience required for this position and grade level, candidates must demonstrate all the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):
Ability to perform advanced tonometry and pupil evaluation;
Ability to perform calculations for selection of intraocular lens;
Knowledge of clinic based ophthalmic surgical assisting;
Knowledge of eye anatomy and physiology;
Knowledge of medication effects and proper instillation in the eye;
Knowledge of optics; and
Knowledge of proper cleaning and maintenance of clinic equipment.

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected