Position Title
Biological Science Laboratory Technician (Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza)
Agency
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
Announcement Number
DE-12767468-25-VS Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 21, 2025 to Wednesday, July 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than USDA? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

 For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Ames, IA
 B. Manhattan, KS
 C. Orient Point, NY
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
5
6
7
3. Are you a retiree receiving a civilian Federal or FSA County Annuity?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Have you ever received a voluntary separation incentive payment (VSIP or buyout) to leave the Federal civilian service or FSA County position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current or former: Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a federal employee receiving a recruitment, relocation, retention and/or other incentive payment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Once a selection is made for this position, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with other hiring managers in the agency who have similar vacancies. Please opt in below if you're willing to have your name, application material, and assessment results shared to be considered for additional, similar positions. There is no guarantee of for further consideration.
 A. Opt-in: Please share my name, application material, and assessment results with additional hiring managers within the agency for similar positions.
 B. Opt-out: I only want to be considered for positions associated with this specific application.
Core Questions
1. Has your work schedule been full-time, i.e., 35-40 hours per week, for every position listed on your resume or OF-612?

If yes, please type Yes.
If no, please type No and include the following in your response for all positions held: position title, employer, dates employed (MM/DD/YY), work schedule (i.e., Full-Time (FT), Part-Time (PT), etc.), and hours/week. Please list in order with current/most recent position first.
Failure to provide all requested information may prevent us from giving credit for experience.
2. I understand for information on the status of my application and the outcome of the application process, I (the applicant) must inquire through USAJOBS. No separate notification will be sent to me. To view the status of my application and the outcome of the application process, I must go to the USAJOBS website and log into My Account. Once in My Account, I must enter the "Application Status" section of the website.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD 214, 50B, performance appraisal may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I understand that any correspondence necessary will be conducted via e-mail and sent to the e-mail address I provided in this application process. I must keep this e-mail address current.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. GS-5 - Choose one answer that best describes your education and experience.
 A. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-4 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I have successfully completed four full years of education above high school leading to a bachelor's degree with major study or at least 24 semester hours in any combination of scientific or technical courses such as biology, chemistry, statistics, entomology, animal husbandry, botany, physics, agriculture, or mathematics and at least 6 semester hours must be directly related to the position to be filled.
 C. I possess a combination of experience and post high school education that included at least 24 semester hours in any combination of scientific or technical courses such as biology, chemistry, statistics, entomology, animal husbandry, botany, physics, agriculture, or mathematics and at least 6 semester hours must be directly related to the position to be filled.
 D. I do not meet any of the requirements as described.
2. GS-6 - Choose one answer that best describes your education and experience.
 A. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-5 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I have successfully completed at least one full year of graduate level education (18 semester hours, 27 quarter hours or equivalent) in a field of study directly related to the work of this position as described in the vacancy announcement.
 C. I possess a combination of specialized experience and graduate education that together meet the requirements for this position.
 D. I do not meet any of the requirements as described.
3. GS-7 - Choose one answer that best describes your education and experience.
 A. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-6 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I have successfully completed at least one full year of graduate level education (18 semester hours, 27 quarter hours or equivalent) in a degree program related to the work of this position as described in the vacancy announcement.
 C. I possess a combination of specialized experience and graduate education that together meet the requirements for this position.
 D. I do not meet any of the requirements as described.
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
4. Following standard laboratory procedures under Biosafety Level 2 laboratory conditions.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
5. I have experience using, maintaining and properly sanitizing the following laboratory equipment. Select all that apply.
 A. Thermocycler
 B. Spectrophotometer
 C. Ultracold freezers
 D. Centrifuges and/or ultra-centrifuges
 E. Biosafety cabinets
 F. Autoclaves or other sterilizing equipment
 G. CO2 incubator
 H. Grinders
 I. Choppers
 J. Blenders
 K. Homogenizers
 L. Filtration apparatus
 M. Balances
 N. pH meters
 O. Microscopes
 P. Dissecting microscopes
 Q. Water baths
 R. Micropipettes
 S. Pipettors, manual and/or automatic
 T. Volumetric glassware
 U. Biohazard/Chemical/laminar flow hoods
 V. Growth chambers
 W. Liquid nitrogen freezers
 X. Hygrothermographs
 Y. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
6. I have experience working on several different laboratory projects at the same time.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. I am proficient at reading the following:
 A. Scales/balances
 B. Thermometers
 C. Temperature gauges
 D. Temperature dials
 E. Other measuring instruments
 F. None of the above
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
8. Preparing chemical mixtures/solutions for laboratory work.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
9. Performing laboratory support work.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
9a. If you responded that you have experience to this question, please indicate in the box below where this training and/or experience is represented on your resume. Please list only the relevant position title(s), organization(s), and dates held.
10. Check each of the following that describes your experience working in a laboratory:
 A. I have experience working with DNA samples.
 B. I have experience working with Molecular samples.
 C. I have experience working with solutions/reagents.
 D. I have experience working with computers to analyze sample
 E. Evaluating new laboratory procedures, techniques, or processes
 F. I have experience working with technical equipment
 G. I have experience working with pipetting.
 H. I have experience working with Media.
 I. I have experience working with sample preparation.
 J. None of the above
11. Which of these best describes your experience of inventory in relation to (check all that apply to your experience):
 A. I have no experience in maintaining, organizing, and tracking of any laboratory items but understand the concept.
 B. I have been responsible for maintaining adequate supply of glassware, solutions, and reagents for normal daily laboratory functions without interruption of service.
 C. I have been responsible for maintaining adequate supply of reference products, standards, or solutions necessary for the calibration of laboratory equipment.
 D. I have maintained/calibrated an inventory of reference standards or instrumentation as required for use in the ISO 17025 accreditation process.
 E. I have maintained laboratory instruments and equipment within my department to prevent loss.
 F. I have maintained and tracked equipment for multiple laboratories so that instruments do not get lost or misplaced.
 G. I have maintained adequate levels of cell lines, cultures, antibodies, and/or media in sterile condition for the use of coworkers in my department, employees in other departments, myself or clients.
 H. None of the above
12. In the production of culture media, I have working knowledge of the following:
 A. Quality control of media
 B. Determining pH of media
 C. Maintaining/storing of media to assure optimum performance
 D. Coordinating the production of media to assure an adequate inventory for testing purposes
 E. Following written procedures to produce media
 F. None of above
12a. If you responded that you have experience to this question, please indicate in the box below where this training and/or experience is represented on your resume. Please list only the relevant position title(s), organization(s), and dates held.
13. I have direct experience and/or training in the use of the following personal protective equipment (PPE).
 A. Rubber boots and protective gloves
 B. Hearing and eye protection
 C. Medical or laboratory coats/smocks/outerwear
 D. Sanitized garments/masks
 E. Respirators
 F. Powered Air Purifying Respirator (PAPR)
 G. Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus (SCBA)
 H. Other PPE
 I. None of the above
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
14. Applying and adhering to regulations that apply to the proper disposal of biological/biohazard specimens and hazardous chemicals.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
15. I have interpreted and applied information from Material Safety Data Sheets pertaining to the following:
 A. The nature of the material hazard covered
 B. Remedies for exposure by inhalation, contact, or ingestion
 C. Long term health effects from exposure
 D. Spill clean-up procedures and requirements
 E. Required uses of personal protective equipment (PPE)
 F. None of the above
16. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 A. Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 B. No, I do not certify and I understand that by responding “no” to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected