Position Title
Supervisory Criminal Investigator (Assistant Special Agent-in-Charge)
Agency
Office of the Inspector General
Announcement Number
USDA-OIG-MP-12796918-25-FB Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 19, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current Office of the Inspector General employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you an Office of the Inspector General employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment AND you have held or currently hold a position on a permanent basis in the competitive service with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?

 A. Yes
 B. No
3.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Fort Lauderdale, FL
 C. Chicago, IL
 D. East Lansing, MI
 E. Kansas City, MO
 F. Lincoln, NE
 G. Raleigh, NC
 H. Oklahoma City, OK
 I. Dallas, TX
 J. Temple, TX
 K. Federal Way, WA
2. Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. All current federal employees must have a minimum performance rating of acceptable or higher to be considered for placement. Appraisal must be included in Applicant's submission. Current federal employees who have a current unacceptable performance rating will be excluded from consideration. Note: Failure to select one of the below responses will render you ineligible for further consideration.
 A. I am a current federal employee and have a current acceptable performance rating or higher.
 B. I am a current federal employee and have a current unacceptable performance rating.
 C. I am a new current federal employee and have not received a performance rating as of this date.
 D. Not applicable, I am not a current federal employee.
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Please respond to the following questions. Any experience claimed in response to the questions MUST be supported by information in your resume. This information must be SPECIFIC, (i.e., duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments). Failure to provide supporting documentation may result in an ineligible rating.
1. From the choices below, select the one statement that BEST describes your education and experience in relation to the minimum qualifications requirement for the Sensitive Investigations Office Supervisory Criminal Investigator (Assistant Special Agent-in-Charge), GS-1811-14 position:
 A. I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 level in federal service performing duties such as coordinating, leading, and directing policy, planning, managerial, operational, and administrative activities of a national and global investigative program involving classified materials, and exercising a thorough mastery-level operational knowledge of sensitive and classified investigative and/or administrative support operations and activities. My experience includes: planning, directing, and coordinating sensitive criminal and administrative investigations, from planning and constructing fact-finding inquiries, conducting investigative interviews, and reporting follow-up data and the results of investigations and/or administrative inquiries; analyzing investigative facts to arrive at sound conclusions; providing direction, technical assistance, training, consultation, and guidance to direct report staff on highly complex and sensitive impactful criminal investigations which often receive prominent media coverage; and maintaining regional, divisional, headquarters, and national reporting procedures to ensure timely notification of sensitive incidents, notification of other law enforcement agencies and Intelligence Community organizations; coordinating, leading, and directing policy, planning, managerial, training, operational, and administrative activities and exercising a thorough and expert knowledge of investigative and/or administrative support operations and activities; providing liaison to other law enforcement and federal agencies; assisting with the formulation and recommendation of policy and procedures promoting the development of the most effective and efficient investigative and administrative programs; conducting or leading interdisciplinary teams in conducting special projects and directing and managing the activities of direct report staff; and ensuring compliance with a broad range of USDA Office of the Inspector General, USDA, and other federal and business requirements and developing internal administrative controls, guidance, and procedures.
 B. I do not possess the required specialized experience as described above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. The selectee will be required to meet the initial agency suitability determination (i.e. local police checks, review of past employment data, review of Query National information Center report, results of special agency check, etc.) before a final job offer can be made. Are you able to pass such an initial agency suitability determination?

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This position is subject to the provisions of the Domestic Violence Offender Gun Ban commonly referred to as the Lautenberg Amendment. This act makes it a felony for anyone convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence such as an assault or attempted assault on a family member to ship, transport, possess, or receive firearms or ammunition. (False or fraudulent information provided by candidates is criminally punishable by fine or imprisonment per 18 U.S.C. Section 1001). Applicants violating or who have violated this act are ineligible for this position. Are you willing and able to obtain and maintain eligibility for this position based on the provisions of the Lautenberg Amendment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. This position requires you to have a Top Secret security clearance with Sensitive Compartmented Information eligibility based on the completion of a favorable Single Scope Background Investigation. Do you possess, or are you able to obtain and maintain for the duration or employment, a Top Secret clearance with Sensitive Compartmented Information eligibility?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. This position requires you to obtain and maintain a valid motor vehicle operator's license. Do you possess, or are you able to obtain and maintain for the duration or employment, a valid motor vehicle operator's license?

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. This position requires you to qualify with your assigned duty firearm(s) on a quarterly basis. Are you willing and able to qualify with your assigned duty firearm(s) on a quarterly basis?

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. This position is subject to pre-employment and periodic random drug testing. Are you willing to submit to pre-employment and periodic random drug testing?

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. This position requires travel to other duty locations approximately 50% of the time or less. Are you able to travel approximately 50% of the time or less?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. This position will require you to obtain and use a government-issued charge card for business-related travel at government expense. Are you able to obtain and maintain for the duration or employment, a government-issued charge card for business-related travel?

 A. Yes
 B. No
10. This position may require you to obtain and use a government-issued purchase charge card for non-travel business-related expenditures. Are you able to obtain and maintain for the duration or employment, a government-issued purchase charge card for non-travel business-related expenditures?

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. From the choices below, select the one statement that BEST describes your experience working within a law enforcement program:
 A. I have no experience working with law enforcement programs.
 B. I have worked in conjunction with law enforcement programs as a regular part of my job.
 C. I have performed similar or directly related job functions and my experience and training have prepared me to perform these functions successfully.
 D. I have performed these functions as a regular part of my job during my work within law enforcement agencies.
 E. I am highly skilled at performing law enforcement duties within an agency. I routinely perform these duties independently and have carried them out successfully to enhance the efficiency of operations, achieve compliance, and solve problems for my employing organization. I am frequently sought out by my peers as a subject matter expert in this area.
12. From the choices below, select the one statement that BEST describes your highest level of experience in applying laws of evidence, rules of criminal procedure, and precedent-setting court decisions to gather investigative evidence:
 A. I have not performed these duties as a regular part of my position.
 B. I have served as a member of an investigative team or group, providing assistance and support in carrying out the duties described above, under the guidance of a team leader or senior investigator.
 C. I have provided guidance to junior employees and coworkers in applying rules, regulations, and procedures when conducting an investigation and collecting evidence.
 D. I have supervised, served as a consultant to others, and provided recommendations to others who carry out the duties described above.
13. From the choices below, select the statement(s) that describe(s) your ability to develop and implement an organizational vision which integrates key national and program goals, priorities, values, and other factors, and creates a work environment that encourages creative thinking, maintains focus, intensity, and persistence, even under adversity. Select all that apply.
 A. Formulates long-term goals for an organization that are consistent with key organizational priorities and values and develops a shared vision of a desirable future state.
 B. Sets priorities and establishes strategies for implementing a vision which affect office, bureau, and agency-wide program(s)/project(s) at the key management level.
 C. Identifies the organization’s key issues and develops strategies to build strengths and leads organizational change by adapting to present economic, political, social, or technological factors.
 D. Redirects program activities to new strategic directions with experience in setting priorities and establishing strategies for implementing the mission and vision.
 E. I do not have any experience as described above.
14. From the choices below, select the statement(s) that describe(s) your ability to explain, advocate, and express facts and ideas in a convincing manner, and negotiate with individuals and groups internally and externally to develop an expansive professional network with other organizations, and to identify the internal and external politics that impact the work of the organization. Select all that apply.
 A. I have used persuasion to change the decisions, opinions, attitudes, and behaviors of staff, higher-level management, congressional staff, internal and external customers, or the general public.
 B. I have brought opposing groups or individuals together in order to reconcile differences and accomplish organizational goals that affect a wide range of office activities or the general public.
 C. I have collaborated with key individuals such as higher-level managers, congressional staff, union officials, etc., to implement a new controversial program or initiative, and have represented the organization and its policies as chair of intra- or interoffice committees to build consensus.
 D. I have represented the organization in negotiations with key managers, congressional staff, and union officials, negotiated with other groups within the organization to obtain resources and/or services, and negotiated with internal and external groups to facilitate programs or partnerships.
 E. I do not have any experience as described above.
15. From the choices below, select the one statement that BEST describes the type of work you have managed:
 A. I have not previously performed work of this scope.
 B. Work that is administrative, technical, or clerical in scope with services provided to field office activities.
 C. Work that is complex administrative, technical, or professional in scope and supports a state-level organization on a wide range of activities affecting other agencies, the general public, or outside interests.
 D. Work that is national in scope, subject to continual or intense congressional and media scrutiny or potential controversy or has a pervasive impact on the general public.
 E. Work that is highly complex administrative, technical, or professional in scope and supports the development of major regulatory, policy, or comparable highly technical programs and facilitates programs of national significance.
16. From the choices below, select the one statement that BEST describes your experience in coordinating criminal investigative work with representatives of federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies:
 A. I have not performed these duties as a regular part of my position.
 B. I have served as a member of an investigative team or group, providing assistance and support in carrying out the duties described above under the guidance of a team leader or senior investigator.
 C. I have provided guidance to junior employees, coworkers, and personnel from outside agencies in applying rules, regulations, and procedures when leading an investigation and collecting evidence.
 D. I have led a task force and provided guidance to outside agencies, provided recommendations to enhance the capabilities of the task force, and ensured compliance with applicable local, state, tribal, and federal laws.
17. From the choices below, select the statement(s) that describe(s) your ability to make timely and effective decisions and produce results through strategic planning and the implementation and evaluation of programs and policies. Select all that apply.
 A. I have developed ideas, programs, etc., that had a positive impact on a wide range of activities within the organization.
 B. I have identified opportunities to develop services inside and outside the organization taking risks to pursue benefits, advantages, or savings for the organization.
 C. I have anticipated and identified potential or actual problems relating to the achievement of program goals and provided corrective actions and/or developed contingency plans.
 D. I have developed leadership and professional skills by participating in professional, management, or community activities, or serving on multifunctional committees.
 E. I have taken initiative to organize the workload, balancing the interests and needs of clients and readjusting/adapting the workload and priorities to unforeseen demands and emergencies.
 F. I do not have any experience as described above.
18. From the choices below, select the statement(s) that describe(s) your ability to design and implement strategies which maximize employee potential and foster high ethical standards in meeting the organization's vision, mission, and goals. Select all that apply.
 A. I have provided leadership to accomplish the goals for an organization by guiding and motivating others and gaining the confidence and active support of internal and external customers and stakeholder groups.
 B. I have assessed the needs and developed promotion potential opportunities for subordinate staff, while motivating employees by sharing credit for successful accomplishments, giving them opportunities to present their work, and recognizing employees through effective use of the organization’s performance management and awards systems.
 C. I have served as a formal and informal mentor for staff, giving employees latitude to plan and perform work while maintaining open communication.
 D. I have fostered a workplace allowing for the open flow of ideas and various experiences to achieve organizational goals and objectives.
 E. I do not have any experience as described above.
19. From the choices below, select the statement(s) that describe(s) your ability to acquire and administer human, financial, material, and information resources in a manner which instills public trust, accomplishes the organization's mission, and uses new technology to enhance decision making. Select all that apply.
 A. Assesses current and future needs in staffing, finance/budgeting, etc., and establishes program and policy objectives and strategies to meet the organizational mission.
 B. Monitors and evaluates progress to ensure programs and policies are being implemented and adjusted as necessary to accomplish the organization’s mission.
 C. Develops long range fiscal planning while ensuring appropriate funding levels will be available in the present and the future.
 D. Uses results-oriented performance measures (e.g., quantity, cost, timeliness, quality of products and/or services) to support organizational goals.
 E. Evaluates program performance and project accomplishments to assess overall program effectiveness and efficiency.
 F. Assesses the present and future information systems and other technological resources to meet the organization’s needs and have the ability to understand the impact of technology changes that occur in an organization.
 G. None of the above.
20. From the choices below, select the one statement that BEST describes the highest level of supervisory/managerial experience you have:
 A. I have not performed these duties as a regular part of my position.
 B. I have developed annual, multiyear, or other long-term plans and schedules with senior supervisors or staff for their review and approval.
 C. I have been a lead in a nonsupervisory role responsible for developing or deciding the methodologies for achieving goals and objectives, both short term and long term.
 D. I have planned and scheduled production-oriented work and adjusted staffing levels or work procedures for my subordinate nonsupervisory personnel. I have outlined organizational needs to accommodate changes and justify the purchase of new equipment and outlined and implemented methodologies for subordinates to achieve work goals and objectives.
 E. I have overseen the planning and execution of one or more programs through subordinate supervisors or senior staff, approved multiyear work plans developed by subordinate supervisors or senior staff, managed policy changes in response to appropriations or other legislated changes, and managed major structural changes to the supervised organization.
21. From the choices below, select the statement(s) that describe(s) your experience working as a supervisor, team lead, or project manager, in communicating with subordinates and reviewing the work of others. Select all that apply.
 A. I provide general standing instructions on recurring assignments by indicating what is to be done, applicable policies, procedures, and methods to follow, data and information required, quality and quantity of work expected, priority of assignments, and deadlines.
 B. I establish qualitative and quantitative measures for the performance and outcomes of the unit.
 C. I provide specific instructions for new, difficult, or special assignments including suggested procedures and sources of information including the location and type of written material that may be used as an aid in assignment completion.
 D. I review the work of others for missing or incompatible information.
 E. I ensure finished work and methods used are technically accurate and in compliance with established instructions, methods, procedures, and deadlines.
 F. I assign work with standing instructions on objectives, priorities, and deadlines and provide guidance for unusually involved situations.
 G. I evaluate completed work for overall technical soundness and conformance to agency policies and legal or system requirements.
 H. I assess the level of customer service provided by my organization.
 I. I provide training to other employees or provide assistance to others who need help with assignments not specifically covered by general instructions or regulations.
 J. I do not have any experience as described above.
22. From the choices below, select the statement(s) that describe(s) your managerial responsibilities and experience. Select all that apply.
 A. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities and skill levels.
 B. I have established measurable performance goals for subordinates.
 C. I have evaluated work performance goals for subordinates and have counseled them.
 D. I have initiated formal performance improvement plans.
 E. I have made final selection decisions for permanent positions.
 F. I have realigned staff assignments to accommodate work or workload changes.
 G. I have heard and resolved complaints and grievances from employees and employee groups.
 H. I have enacted minor disciplinary measures and proposed major disciplinary actions.
 I. I have initiated awards and have approved training requests for subordinate employees within budgetary requirements.
 J. I do not have any experience as described above.
23. From the choices below, select the statement(s) that describe(s) your ability to communicate information and significant updates with all levels of managers, staff members, support staff, and others within your organization. Select all that apply.
 A. I have communicated with other staff members and managers in the routine performance of my duties. I have conducted meetings with and provided training for staff members or managers within organizations.
 B. I have communicated with other staff members and managers in the routine performance of their duties and provided recommendations for improvement.
 C. I have drafted memoranda or conducted briefings for staff and managers regarding procedural, policy, and program updates that affect internal and external operations within an organization.
 D. I have presented briefings on program areas to higher-level managers or internal/external organizations or agencies.
 E. I have represented a program or organization in high-level conferences and/or meetings or acted as a liaison to other internal/external organizations or agencies.
 F. I do not have any experience as described above.
24. From the choices below, select the statement(s) that describe(s) your writing experience. Select all that apply.
 A. I have written branch, division, or agency policy statements, responses to congressional inquiries, and operational guidance.
 B. I have prepared technical material, rules, regulations, instructions, reports, charts, graphs, or tables for management presentations.
 C. I have drafted memorandums, reports, letters, etc., on behalf of my organization.
 D. I have drafted branch policy, procedures, memorandums, reports, letter, etc., for a supervisor.
 E. I do not have any experience as described above.
25. From the choices below, select the subject(s) in which you have prepared written reports or guidance in a law enforcement program. Select all that apply.
 A. Resource protection
 B. Law enforcement plans
 C. Law enforcement policies
 D. Law enforcement special studies
 E. Investigative reports
 F. Procedure memorandums
 G. Bureau/office policy
 H. Department policy
 I. State policy
 J. I do not have any experience as described above.
26. From the choices below, select the one statement that BEST describes the highest level of experience you possess in managing classified information:
 A. I have not performed these duties as a regular part of my position.
 B. I have developed a series of annual multi-year long-range work plans associated with the internal handling of information. I have worked with high-level program officials to establish and manage classified information-related internal controls and objectives for assigned staff.
 C. As lead, I have been responsible for developing or deciding the methodologies for processing classified information and adhering to internal controls and achieving goals and objectives.
 D. I have planned and scheduled production-oriented work concerning the handling of classified information and adjusted staffing levels or work procedures for subordinate employees. I have accommodated changes and justified the purchase of new equipment. I have overseen the development of technical data, statistics, suggestions, and other information related to the handling of classified information. I have chosen methodologies for adhering to internal controls and achieving work goals and objectives.
 E. I have overseen the planning and execution of one or more classified programs through subordinate supervisors or senior staff. I have approved the transmission of classified information processed by subordinate supervisors or senior staff. I have managed classified information-related policy changes in response to changes in legislation.
27. From the choices below, select the statement(s) that describe(s) your ability to acquire and administer classified and/or sensitive information and materials in a manner which instills public trust, accomplishes the organization's mission, and uses new technology to ensure proper handling of such information and materials. Select all that apply.
 A. Assesses current and future needs (i.e. volume of sensitive and/or classified investigations to be worked) and establishes program/policy objectives and strategies to meet the organizational mission.
 B. Monitors and evaluates progress to ensure program and policies related to sensitive and/or classified information are being implemented and adjusted as necessary to accomplish the organization’s mission.
 C. Develops long range information management planning while ensuring processes do not impede capacity to complete investigations.
 D. Evaluates program performance and project accomplishments to assess overall sensitivity and/or classified information program effectiveness and efficiency.
 E. Assesses the present and future information systems and other technological resources to meet the organization’s needs and have the ability to understand the impact of technological changes that occur in an organization.
 F. I do not have any experience as described above.
28. From the choices below, select the statement(s) which describe(s) the category level(s) of sensitive and/or classified information with which you have worked. Select all that apply.
 A. Sensitive information
 B. Confidential information
 C. Confidential scientific or technical information
 D. Secret information
 E. Secret scientific or technical information (vital)
 F. Top Secret information
 G. Top Secret scientific or technical information (significant)
 H. Sensitive Compartmented Information
 I. Special Access Programs information
 J. None of the above
29. From the choices below, select the statement(s) that describe(s) the categories of "authorized" audiences before which you have communicated briefings and/or reports containing sensitive and/or classified information. Select all that apply.
 A. I have communicated with other staff members and managers in the routine performance of my duties.
 B. I have conducted meetings with and provided training for staff members or managers within my organization.
 C. I have communicated with other staff members and managers in the routine performance of their duties and provided recommendations for improvement.
 D. I have drafted memorandums or conducted briefings for staff and managers regarding procedural, policy, and program updates that affect internal and external operations with my organization.
 E. I have presented briefings on program areas to higher-level managers or internal/external organizations such as Congressional staff and Intelligence Community agencies.
 F. I have represented a program or organization in high-level conferences and/or meetings or acted as a liaison to other internal/external organizations or agencies.
 G. I do not have any experience as described above.
30. From the choices below, select the one statement that BEST describes your ability to determine if allegations have investigative merit and to recommend appropriate disposition:
 A. I have not performed these duties as a regular part of my position.
 B. As a regular part of my job, I have worked in conjunction with law enforcement programs in determining if allegations have investigative merit and recommending appropriate disposition.
 C. I have performed similar or directly related job functions, determining if allegations have investigative merit and recommending appropriate disposition and my experience and training have prepared me to perform these functions successfully.
 D. I have performed the functions of determining if allegations have investigative merit and recommending appropriate disposition as a regular part of my job during my work within law enforcement agencies.
 E. I am highly skilled at determining if allegations have investigative merit and recommending appropriate disposition within an agency. I routinely perform these duties independently and have carried them out successfully to enhance the efficiency of operations, achieve compliance, and solve problems for my employing organization. I am frequently sought out by my peers as a subject matter expert in this area.
31. From the choices below, select the one statement that BEST describes your ability to identify the significance of program weaknesses to prevent and/or reduce waste, fraud, abuse, and mismanagement through established appropriate courses of resolution action, with appropriate follow-up action to confirm initiation and completion:
 A. I have not performed these duties as a regular part of my position.
 B. As a regular part of my job, I have worked in conjunction with law enforcement programs in performing these functions.
 C. I have performed similar or directly related job functions, and my experience and training have prepared me to perform these functions successfully.
 D. I have performed these functions as a regular part of my job during my work within law enforcement agencies.
 E. I am highly skilled at performing these functions. I routinely perform these duties independently and have carried them out successfully to enhance the efficiency of operations, achieve compliance, and solve problems for my employing organization. I am frequently sought out by my peers as a subject matter expert in this area.
32. From the choices below, select the one statement that BEST describes your ability to provide advice and guidance regarding criminal and administrative law issues, including the legal standards for taking adverse and performance-based actions, laws regarding retaliation, discrimination, whistleblowing and harassment, and statutes, regulations, and policies relating to the administration of personnel actions.
 A. I have not performed these duties as a regular part of my position.
 B. As a regular part of my job, I have worked in conjunction with law enforcement programs in performing these functions.
 C. I have performed similar or directly related job functions, and my experience and training have prepared me to perform these functions successfully.
 D. I have performed these functions as a regular part of my job during my work within law enforcement agencies.
 E. I am highly skilled at performing these functions. I routinely perform these duties independently and have carried them out successfully to enhance the efficiency of operations, achieve compliance, and solve problems for my employing organization. I am frequently sought out by my peers as a subject matter expert in this area.
33. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 B. No, I do not certify and I understand that by responding “no” to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected