Position Title
Management Analyst
Agency
National Nuclear Security Administration
Announcement Number
25-NA-80-XA-00436-NNSAL Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 19, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current career/career-conditional federal employee at the Department of Energy applying for a PROMOTION to a position with a higher grade/pay band or higher promotion potential than you previously held on a permanent basis?

Note: also select "Yes" if applying for a change-to-lower grade (CTLG) to a position with higher promotion potential than you previously held on a permanent basis.

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current excepted service federal employee at the Department of Energy applying for a CONVERSION (same or lower grade) to a different position in the excepted service?

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current excepted service federal employee at the Department of Energy applying for a PROMOTION to a position with a higher grade/pay band or higher promotion potential than you previously held?

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current career/career-conditional federal employee at the Department of Energy applying for a REASSIGNMENT, CHANGE-TO-LOWER GRADE, or REPROMOTION and you currently or previously held a position with the same grade/pay band or higher and the same or higher promotion potential on a permanent basis?

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Do any of your relatives work for the agency to which you are applying? If so, please list any applicable names below. Please enter N/A in the text box, if not Applicable. (Include: father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, and half sister).
2. I understand that the responses in this questionnaire must be fully supported in my online resume. I further understand that my resume must provide detailed descriptions and/or examples of my knowledge and competencies as required in the vacancy announcement, and that my failure to do so may result in my being rated "ineligible" or "not qualified" for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
WARNING! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from employment consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications.
3. I have read this Vacancy Announcement thoroughly and understand that supplemental documentation may be required. I further understand that I will not be considered if my supplemental documentation is not received in the Servicing Personnel Office by the closing date of the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I declare under penalty of perjury, that all statements contained in this application and any accompanying documents are true and correct, with full knowledge that all statements made in this application are subject to investigation and that any false or dishonest answer to any question may be grounds for disqualification and loss of consideration.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you currently serving or have you served under a Political Appointment in the Federal Government within the last five (5) years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Are you a current NNSA employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band, EN-03/NQ-03/NN-03/ or GS-13 equivalent, in the federal service which has equipped you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position. Select the choice which best describes your specialized experience.
 A. I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the EN-03, or GS-13 level as described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the 1 year of specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement.
3. The incumbent will negotiate with others to reach agreement, settlement, consensus, compliance, or a solution on Nuclear Incident Response-related issues. Please select the answer that most closely identifies with your experience on NSP related communications.
 A. I have experience communicating with interagency partners and senior government officials.
 B. I have experience communicating complex technical problems with my peers and colleagues.
 C. I have experience communicating complex technical problems and information with interagency partners and senior government officials.
 D. None of the above.
4. The position requires knowledge of DOE/NNSA and interagency principles and practices sufficient to establish emergency response policies. Please select the answer that most closely identifies with your experience
 A. I have established nuclear incident response policies and objectives in collaboration with other organizations.
 B. I have assisted in the development and implemented nuclear incident response policies and objectives in collaboration with other organizations.
 C. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 D. I have not had relevant education, training or experience in performing this task.
5. The position requires the ability to exercise sound decision-making in highly charged, emergency response/operational response situations. Please select the answer that most closely identifies with your experience.
 A. I have experience analyzing the impacts of problems, developing alternative plans of action and making sound realistic decisions in emergency response situations.
 B. I have experience analyzing the impacts of problems, developing alternative plans of action and making sound realistic decisions.
 C. I have no emergency response operational experience.
 D. None of the above.
6. Describe your current level of engagement with organizing, planning, and evaluating NEST field response assets. Select the answer that most closely identifies with your experience.
 A. I have led NEST operational activities.
 B. I have participated as an active NEST operational team member.
 C. I have an awareness of NEST operational response activities.
 D. None of the above.
7. The position requires a high degree of ability in addressing disparate technical activities into unified operational plans. Select the answer below which best reflects your experience in this area.
 A. I have participated in studies that address NEST operational issues.
 B. I have experience developing implementation plans to address operational deficiencies.
 C. I have experience resolving highly complex technical activities during exercises and real-world operational responses.
 D. None of the above.
8. The position requires the ability to effectively manage operational teams, to include coordination with multiple U.S. agencies. Select the answer that most closely identifies with your experience in this area.
 A. I have experience leading teams and programs in coordination with interagency partners during an incident response mission.
 B. I have experience leading technically complex programs and teams with multiple stakeholders during an incident response mission.
 C. I have participated as a team member supporting incident response missions.
 D. I have no experience in performing these duties.
9. The position requires the ability to be an effective leader. (Select all that apply).
 A. I have directed, planned, and assigned work to be performed by others.
 B. I have supervised, coached, and/or mentored staff to achieve measurable results.
 C. I have experience in counseling employees on work related issues.
 D. I am knowledgeable about employee development and have experience identifying individual training needed and making recommendations for group training.
 E. None of the above.
10. The position requires the incumbent to lead the operational readiness activities, including planning, preparedness, and response phases of a radiological/nuclear (R/N) emergency. Select all roles, for which you have experience in R/N readiness and R/N emergency response environment.
 A. Radiological safety evaluations.
 B. Law enforcement interfaces.
 C. Developing R/N emergency response plans.
 D. R/N medical response.
 E. R/N consequence management activities.
 F. None of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected