Position Title
INTERDISCIPLINARY (ENVIRONMENTAL) - DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-NH03-12791237-DLF Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 3, 2025 to Friday, December 19, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Current DoD Employees (Including Air Force) - Are you currently employed as a permanent career or career-conditional DoD (Air Force, Army, Navy, Marines, DLA, DFAS, or DoDEA) employee in the competitive service?  If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you must submit a copy of your most recent career/career conditional SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action) AND a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Kelly AFB, TX
 B. Lackland AFB, TX
2. Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0020 - Community Planning
 B. 0401 - General Natural Resources Management And Biological Sciences
 C. 0801 - General Engineering
 D. 0819 - Environmental Engineering
 E. 1301 - General Physical Science
3. I am a current permanent or former federal employee with less than 52 weeks break in the competitive service and I am applying for this position to be considered as a:
 A. Promotion Candidate - I am eligible for promotion consideration since I have held the next lower grade for at least 52 weeks on a permanent basis in the competitive service or I am a current FWS employee. NOTE: You must submit a copy of SF-50(s) that demonstrate you meet the one year time-in-grade requirement if applicable (i.e., Promotion, Within Grade/Rate Increase).
 B. Repromotion Candidate - I am eligible for non-competitive repromotion consideration since I have held a higher grade on a permanent basis in the competitive federal service or a permanent position with the same or higher promotion potential as this position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis.
 C. Non-competitive Reassignment Candidate - I am eligible for non-competitive reassignment consideration since I currently hold a permanent competitive service position in the federal government with equal or higher promotion potential as this position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis held on a permanent basis.
 D. Non-competitive Voluntary Change to Lower Grade (CLG) Candidate - I am eligible and requesting consideration for a Voluntary CLG since I have held, or currently hold a permanent competitive service position at a higher grade in the federal service. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your current permanent position.
 E. I am not eligible for any of the above considerations.
4. I am a current or prior military member of the Armed Forces that is retiring or has been retired less than 180 days. Hiring (appointments or transfers) of retiring or retired members of the Armed Forces to positions in any DoD Component during the 180 days immediately following retirement may only be made IAW DoDI 1402.01 and may require a waiver for appointment prior to the 180 days from official military retirement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you retired from the Federal civilian service or are you in a phased retirement and receiving an annuity?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Current or Former Political Appointees: The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently employed, or have been employed within the last 5 years, in any one of the categories below, you must disclose this information. Failure to disclose this information could result in disciplinary action including removal from Federal Service.

Are you a current or former political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316?
-OR-
Are you a current or former Schedule A or Schedule C political appointee, or an appointee who serves/served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch?
-OR-
Are you a current or former political appointee or non-career SES Executive Branch employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. If you are currently employed in a permanent General Schedule (GS) position in the competitive service or held a GS position within the previous 52 weeks, please identify your current grade held in a permanent position with inclusive dates, (e.g. 03 Jan 2015 to present). If your current grade is not your highest grade held, please provide both your current grade (with inclusive dates) and your highest grade held grade with inclusive dates, (e.g. 01 Jan 2014 to 02 Jan 2015). If you have not held a GS position in the last 52 weeks, you may skip this question. (Note: Your SF-50's should support the highest grade held).
8. Did you voluntarily separate from federal service and receive Voluntary Separation Incentive Pay (VSIP)?

NOTE: If your response is yes, you must provide a copy of your SF 50 or Leave and Earnings statement showing receipt of payment as part of your application submission. If you become reemployed by the federal government within 5 years of separating from federal service and have received a VSIP, you will be required to repay the full VSIP amount paid to you.
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you a military spouse who is currently married to an active duty military member?

NOTE: This item is for demographic reporting only. It does not confer eligibility or preference. If you want to apply as a military spouse, you must select from the eligibility options above. Military spouse and military spouse preference may not be available for all positions.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. If you are a military spouse who is currently married to an active duty military member, did you relocate with the military member to their current duty station?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Not applicable. I am not a military spouse.
Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements needed to qualify for a INTERDISCIPLINARY ENVIRONMENTAL POSITION, NH-0020, 0401, 0801, 0819, 1301-03. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.
1. From the descriptions below, select the letter that describes the education and experience you have that demonstrates how you meet the basic qualification requirements for the NH-0020-03 Community Planning (Environmental) position. You must submit a copy of your unofficial transcripts showing type of degree and date conferred when applying for this position.
 A. I have a degree in community planning; or related field such as urban affairs, architecture, landscape architecture, engineering, sociology, geography, economics, political science, or public administration that included at least 12 semester hours in the planning process, socioeconomic and physical elements of planning, urban and regional economic analysis, and development finance. Note: Applicants with degrees in related fields, such as those listed above, who do not have the 12 semester hours of specified course work must have had at least 1 year of work experience in community planning acquired under the supervision and guidance of a community planner. OR a combination of education and experience with courses equivalent to a major in one of the above disciplines, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the above disciplines of which at least 12 semester hours were in the planning process, and socioeconomic and physical elements of planning, plus appropriate experience or additional education. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts.
 B. I do not have the basic education or experience as described in A above.
2. From the descriptions below, select the letter that describes the education and experience you have that demonstrates how you meet the basic qualification requirements for the NH-0401-03 Biological Scientist (Environmental) position. You must submit a copy of your unofficial transcripts showing type of degree and date conferred when applying for this position.
 A. I have a degree in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position. OR a combination of education and experience with education equivalent to a major in one of the disciplines above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts.
 B. I do not have the basic education or experience as described in A above.
3. From the descriptions below, select the letter that describes the education and experience you have that demonstrates how you meet the basic qualification requirements for the NH-0801-03 General Engineer (Environmental) or NH-0819-03 Environmental Engineer position. You must submit a copy of your unofficial transcripts showing type of degree and date conferred when applying for this position.
 A. I have a Bachelors or higher degree in a professional engineering curriculum from a school that is accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) and I have submitted a copy of my college transcripts. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts.
 B. I have a Bachelors or higher degree in a professional engineering curriculum from a school that is NOT ABET accredited, but my education included differential and integral calculus, as well as courses in at least five of the following seven disciplines: (A) statistics or dynamics, (B) strength of materials (stress, strain relationships), (C) fluid mechanics or hydraulics, (D) thermodynamics, (E) electrical fields and circuits, (F) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties), and (G) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts.
 C. I do not have a degree as described in (A) or (B) above, but I am registered as a professional engineer in a State, Guam, Puerto Rico, or the District of Columbia. In addition, I have a combination of education and experience. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts and EIT certification.
 D. I do not have a degree as described in (A) or (B), but I have passed the Engineer in Training (EIT) examination, and in addition, I have a combination of education in the field of engineering and professional engineering experience. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts and EIT certification.
 E. I do not have a degree as described in a (A) or (B) above, but I have completed at least 60 semester hours of course work in the Physical, Mathematical, and Engineering Sciences. This course work included differential and integral calculus, as well as courses in at least five of the seven areas listed in response (B). Also, I have professional engineering experience. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts.
 F. I have a Bachelor or higher degree in engineering technology, chemistry, physics, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, geology, or another scientific field directly related to engineering. In addition, I have several years of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. I have provided a copy of the completed training plan. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts.
 G. I do not have any education or experience as described above.
4. From the descriptions below, select the letter that describes the education and experience you have that demonstrates how you meet the basic qualification requirements for the NH-1301-03 Physical Scientist (Environmental) position. You must submit a copy of your unofficial transcripts showing type of degree and date conferred when applying for this position.
 A. I have a degree in physical science, engineering, or mathematics that included 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science such as mechanics, dynamics, properties of materials, and electronics. OR a combination of education and experience with education equivalent to one of the majors in one of the disciplines above that included at least 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science, plus appropriate experience or additional education. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts.
 B. I do not have the basic education or experience as described in A above.
5. From the description below, choose the one letter beside the statement that best describes your work experience as relevant to the position of INTERDISCIPLINARY ENVIRONMENTAL POSITION, NH-0020, 0401, 0801, 0819, 1301-03. (NOTE: The selection you make must be supported by a detailed block of work experience in your resume or application). Only experience obtained by the closing date of this announcement will be considered.
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience which is equivalent to Federal experience at the next lower broadband (NH-02) or (GS-11) level or equivalent (grade level, pay schedule, pay band, etc.) and is described in detail in my resume. An example of creditable specialized experience includes: delivering technical expertise and program support, guiding the organization to achieve environmental compliance and effective resolution of environmental challenges; managing environmental programs and budgets by developing strategic plans, administering contracts, and ensuring fiscal responsibility to meet the organizations environmental goals; collaborating with and negotiated favorable outcomes with federal, state, and local agencies, along with internal stakeholders, to address environmental compliance issues and resolve conflicts.
 B. I do not have the specialized experience as described above; however, I believe I have the ability to successfully perform the duties of the position.
6. Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected