Position Title
Electronic Industrial Controls Mechanic
Agency
U.S. Mint
Announcement Number
25-MINT-12791361-M Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 28, 2025 to Thursday, September 11, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current US Mint employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current US Mint employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current US Mint employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current US Mint employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
11
12
2. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other
4. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
5. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
7. Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.
8. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. Choose the highest level of experience you have pertaining to Electronic Industrial Controls Mechanic environment: (
 A. I have experience working with complex integrated electronic equipment and electrical systems without direct supervision. I perform recurring tasks requiring me to make frequent changes to accommodate changing work requirements. I receive only general instructions on new work and report only unique situations to the supervisor.
 B. I have experience working with complex integrated electronic equipment and electrical systems on my own without direct supervision on recurring tasks. All unusual situations are referred to a supervisor.
 C. I have experience working with complex integrated electronic equipment and electrical systems under close direction of a supervisor.
 D. I do not have any of the listed experience.
2. Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties. (limit 250 characters)
3. Please select the following that you are able to use effectively to troubleshoot and diagnose problems:
 A. Blueprints.
 B. Pneumatic Schematics.
 C. Electronic Schematics.
 D. Hydraulic Schematics.
 E. None of the above.
4. Please select the electronic equipment and/or electrical systems you have experience repairing, troubleshooting/analyzing, modifying, calibrating, aligning, programming, and/or installing:
 A. Performing operational checks/adjustments and system alignments according to manufacturer's specifications to ensure proper sequencing of mechanical, hydraulic, and pneumatic systems with electronic controls.
 B. Security and fire systems.
 C. Programmable computers.
 D. Controls for production equipment (HMI and/or PLC).
 E. None of the above.
5. Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties. (limit 450 characters)
6. Choose from the following all that you have completed when dealing with complex production and electronic equipment systems:
 A. Installation
 B. Monitoring
 C. Troubleshooting
 D. Modification and Calibration
 E. None of the above
7. Please choose the duties you have experience in the overhaul, rebuilding, maintenance and/or testing of:
 A. Multiple axis numerically controlled machine tools (machining centers).
 B. Computer programmable controlled production equipment monitoring systems.
 C. Electronic weighing systems.
 D. Automated packaging systems.
 E. None of the above.
8. Select the following duties you have experience with
 A. Repair electronic sensing systems.
 B. Repair relays.
 C. Repair selectors.
 D. Repair automatic control circuits.
 E. None of the above.
9. Please choose from the following work you have performed in production and manufacturing environments:
 A. Evaluate electrical components and programmable logic interrelationships, interactions, and interconnections of assemblies and systems.
 B. Trouble analyze, rebuild, and overhaul electrical systems and components, modifying techniques and procedures to production needs.
 C. Create and recommend modifications based on (OEM) engineering design and operating criteria.
 D. Judge impact of repairs on related integral devices of equipment and its relation to the production system as a whole and work with other skilled trades to create, recommend and implement solutions.
 E. None of the above.
10. Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties. (limit 250 characters)
11. Please choose the areas you have experience in while performing in your position.
 A. Installation standards and practices for electrical systems.
 B. Integrated automation systems.
 C. Industrial installation practice and standards.
 D. Programmable Logic Controls interface and functionality.
 E. None of these.
12. Please select each statement that applies to your experience with the alignment, calibration and integration of operable systems composed of a number of individual subsystems.
 A. I have performed work to integrate, align and calibrate PLC and computer subsystems within a complete integrated system.
 B. I have performed work to integrate, align and calibrate pneumatic subsystems within a complete integrated system.
 C. I have performed work to integrate, align and calibrate hydraulic subsystems within a complete integrated system.
 D. None of the above.
13. Make sure experience is clearly documented in your resume for each statement selected in the above question. Please give the dates/resume reference when you gained this experience so it may be found to ensure you receive proper credit. (limit 250 characters)
14. Please choose the test equipment with which you have experience or training.
 A. Oscilloscope.
 B. Multi-meter.
 C. Voltmeter
 D. Power Meter.
 E. None of the above.
15. Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties. (limit 250 characters)
16. Please select each statement below that applies in regard to interpreting drawings, specifications, and schematics of complete integrated electronic/mechanical systems.
 A. I have interpreted drawings, specifications, and schematics of complete integrated systems to recognize the functions and interconnections of subsystems.
 B. I have interpreted drawings, specifications, and schematics to trace the effect of a change in one subsystem to other integrated subsystems and determine which controls and devices must be changed or adjusted to compensate.
 C. I have interpreted drawings, specifications, and schematics of complete integrated systems to troubleshoot faults and malfunctions and determine the corrective measures needed.
 D. None of the above.
17. Select the software applications you are proficient in (you understand and use a majority of the time).
 A. Work Processing Software
 B. RS Logix 5000
 C. PLC5/SLC 500
 D. Commercial Off-the-shelf Systems or Equipment Control System
 E. None of the above
18. Please choose the type of hand tools with which you have experience:
 A. Soldering Stations.
 B. Insulated Hand Tools.
 C. Electrician Scissors or Cable Wire Strippers.
 D. Terminal Crimpers.
 E. None of the above
19. Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties. (limit 250 characters)
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
20. Do you have experience coordinating with manufacturer or industry personnel on the maintenance and repair of electronic equipment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
21. Please select the one option that best describes your ability to interpret instructions and specifications in a production environment.
 A. I have interpreted instructions and specifications in a production environment. I have given technical direction to others in the interpretation and specification of instructions on a routine basis. I have used independent judgment in modifying instructions as needed to improve or streamline operations.
 B. I have interpreted instructions and specifications in a production environment and performed routine and diverse tasks without additional guidance. I have performed assigned tasks and operations independently or with minimal supervision.
 C. I have interpreted instructions and specifications in a production environment to perform routine jobs under close supervision and I have, at times, required assistance for more difficult operations.
 D. None of the above.
22. Select each item listed below which applies to your experience and training:
 A. Putting new ideas into practice when fully explained
 B. Learning new techniques
 C. Contributing ideas for getting a task done
 D. Suggesting modifications in shop equipment and procedures to solve problems.
 E. None of the above.
23. Please select each statement below that applies to your experience in setting up and operating software controlled automated test equipment in various test modes to troubleshoot integrated systems.
 A. I have set up and operated software controlled automated test equipment to run established programs in various test modes to test and troubleshoot integrated systems and sub systems.
 B. I have set up and operated software controlled automated test equipment to test and evaluate newly acquired/modified production equipment for proper operation and perform final functional and operational systems tests after repairs and/or modifications.
 C. I have used software-controlled test equipment to trace effects of a change in a subsystem to other subsystems and determine which controls and devices needed to be changed to compensate.
 D. None of the above.
24. Please indicate how you obtained your training on safety practices and procedures:
 A. Classroom training.
 B. On-the-job training.
 C. Classroom & on-the- job training.
 D. None.
25. "Lockout/Tagout (LOTO)" refers to specific practices and procedures to safeguard employees from the unexpected energization, startup of machinery, equipment, or the release of hazardous energy during service or maintenance activities. Please indicate your level of knowledge and experience with LOTO practices and procedures.
 A. I have established a LOTO program, including a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for the use and compliance of the program with personal working experience complying with LOTO.
 B. I have been trained and have experience in the appropriate application of LOTO policies and procedures.
 C. I have been trained in the appropriate use of LOTO procedures with no hands-on experience.
 D. I have no experience as described.
26. With today's continuous advancement in technology, this position requires a strong willingness and ability to learn new systems (e.g. robotics, vision) with limited or no advanced training. Please indicate your level of education and your demonstrated ability to learn new systems.
 A. I have achieved a degree (bachelors or associates) in electronics or electronic engineering technologies. I have demonstrated my ability by learning new systems on my own with little to no direct training or supervision.
 B. I have certification in electronics or electronic engineering technology from either a trade school or while in the military service. I have demonstrated my ability by learning new systems with direct formal training and/or On-The-Job training.
 C. I have experience working on systems and learning electronics or electronic engineering technology through an On-The-Job training or apprenticeship program.
 D. I have no formal training in electronics, electronic engineering technology or associated systems.
27. Select the following you have experience on:
 A. Fire Alarm Systems
 B. National Electric Code
 C. Troubleshooting, modifying and installing motor controls.
 D. Troubleshooting, modifying and installing Variable Frequency Drives
 E. None of the above
28. Select the following you have experience on:
 A. Troubleshooting electronic circuits and electrical controls
 B. Troubleshooting 4-20ma and millivolt control signals
 C. Troubleshooting Programmable Logic Circuits
 D. Troubleshooting Proximity Switches
 E. None of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected