Position Title
Attorney-Adviser (General)
Agency
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
Announcement Number
FRTIB-25-ES-038-12789136 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 16, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
12
13
14
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.
The following questions will measure your knowledge, skills, and abilities in competency areas that have been identified as crucial to job success. Failure to support your answers to these questions in your resume and/or supporting documents may result in a lowered score or loss of consideration.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you possess a Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree or a Bachelor of Laws (LL.B.) degree from an ABA accredited law school?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I understand this position requires me to verify I possess a J.D. degree or a LL.B. degree from an ABA accredited law school. I have uploaded transcripts with my application materials.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you an active member, in good standing, of a bar of a state in the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any Territorial Court under the U.S. constitution?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I understand this position requires me to verify I am an active bar member in good standing. I have either uploaded verification with my application materials or indicated on my resume my membership number.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. GS-12: Applicants must have at least one year of full-time specialized work experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the next lower level (equivalent to the GS-11) in the federal government. Specialized experience is defined as: to qualify at the GS-12 grade level the applicant must have two years of post-J.D. / LL.B. work experience rendering legal advice on federal employee relations matters and/or federal ethics laws. Do you have this experience?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. GS-13: Applicants must have at least one year of full-time specialized work experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the next lower level (equivalent to the GS-12) in the federal government. Specialized experience is defined as: to qualify at the GS-13 grade level the applicant must have a minimum of three years of post-J.D. / LL.B. work experience rendering legal advice on federal employee relations matters and/or federal ethics laws. Do you have this experience?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. GS-14: Applicants must have at least one year of full-time specialized work experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the next lower level (equivalent to the GS-13) in the federal government. Specialized experience is defined as: to qualify at the GS-14 grade level the applicant must have a minimum of four years of post-J.D. / LL.B. work experience rendering legal advice on federal employee relations matters and/or federal ethics laws. Do you have this experience?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. I understand that my resume must contain sufficient information to show that I meet the specialized experience requirements. To ensure I receive full credit for relevant work experience my resume includes: the position title, grade level (if federal service), employment dates (month/day/year to month/day/year), and number of hours per week worked for each position held.
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. The information you provide in your application package (including this questionnaire, your resume, and any required supporting documents) will be reviewed and verified. If you exaggerate or misrepresent your qualifications, or submit false documents, you may be removed from consideration, your score may be lowered, or you may be subject to disciplinary or legal action.

By selecting "Yes," you certify that:

- All of the information in your application package is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
- You understand that intentional false statements, deception, or fraud may result in fines or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001), cancellation of eligibility, denial of appointment, or removal and debarment from       Federal service (5 CFR part 731).
- You understand that all information you provide may be investigated.
 A. Yes, I certify that my application package is accurate and I understand the consequences of providing false information.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected