Position Title
Work and Family Life Specialist
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12631098 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 30, 2025 to Tuesday, October 7, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Do you reside within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position?

The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 Yes, I reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
 No, I do not reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.


3.
Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Work and Family Life Specialist position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.



1.
Which of the following education and/or experience do you have in order to meet the requirements for this position in the 0101 series? NOTE: Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position, if you are qualifying based on education.
 I have a bachelor’s degree or higher in behavioral or social science; or related disciplines appropriate to the position (such as a business-related field).
 I have a combination of education and experience that provided knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 I have four years of appropriate experience that demonstrates acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 I do not have any of the above.


2.
In addition to meeting the basic requirements, applicants must have specialized experience and/or directly related education. Which of the following do you possess?
 2 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a master’s degree OR master’s OR equivalent degree.
 2 years of specialized experience in delivering education services, developing and evaluating needs assessments, and identifying and prioritizing goals with a focus on human/personal growth and development.
 I do not have any of the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have in providing guidance and direction for the development and implementation of effective plans, procedures and tools for the needs of the organization?

 I have 4+ years of experience as described above.
 I have 3 to 4 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 3 years of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have in preparing and conducting briefings/presentations?

 I have 4+ years of experience as described above.
 I have 3 to 4 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 3 years of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


5.
How many years of experience do you have in conducting interviews with management and staff to obtain information about processes, procedures and policies?

 I have 4+ years of experience as described above.
 I have 3 to 4 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 3 years of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


6.
A Work and Family Life Specialist serves as a consultant and instructor, please mark what areas are your specialty.
 A. Career Support (Family Employment) and Volunteer Coordination
 B. Transition Assistance
 C. Relocation Services
 D. Deployment and Individual Augmentee (IA) Support
 E. Personal Financial Management
 F. Life Skills
 G. Exceptional Family Member Program Support
 H. Ombudsman Support
 I. Emergency Response and Emergency Case Management
 J. I do not possess any of the above.


7.
Which of the following best describes your experience in gathering data, compiling statistics, implementing and monitoring service provisions, and making recommendations to higher level supervisors at installation, regional and DoD levels?

 I have 4+ years of experience as described above.
 I have 3 to 4 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 3 years of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙