Position Title
Park Ranger (P) - Green River District Ranger - Supervisory
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
IM-1540-DINO-25-12771040-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 6, 2025 to Tuesday, August 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current career/career-conditional National Park Service Federal employee and meet the following Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:

Current National Park Service Federal employee with a career or career- conditional appointment in the competitive service that hold, or have held a career or career-conditional position at a lower grade level as the position being announced. 

To verify your eligibility as a current National Park Service Federal employee, you must provide a copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status showing that you are a current National Park Service employee. All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.  
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who:
was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; and,
served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; and,
performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; and,
if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing.
 
To verify your eligibility, you must provide documentation for the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA) eligibility, which includes ALL Appointment AND Termination SF-50s for EACH appointment as well as ALL performance evaluations, for each qualifying period of temporary employment claimed.
For more information, review Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA).
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current career/career-conditional National Park Service Federal employee and meet the following Non-competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:
 
Current National Park Service Federal employee with a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service that hold, or have previously held a career or career-conditional position at the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being announced.
 
To verify your eligibility as a National Park Service Federal employee, you must provide a copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status showing that you are a current National Park Service employee. All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. When you applied to this job, did you have any engagement with a National Park Service (NPS) Recruiter?
 A. No. I did not have any engagement with an NPS recruiter.
 B. Yes. I attended an NPS Federal Resume Webinar.
 C. Yes. At a virtual or in-person recruitment or job fair.
 D. Yes. I received an email from an NPS Recruiter.
2. All applicants must submit their most recent performance appraisal showing the official rating of record and signed by a supervisor or, if one is unavailable, a statement as to why it is not available (including if any prior performance appraisals/evaluations were at an acceptable level). If submitting a performance appraisal not dated within the last 18 months, a statement as to why it is the most recent must be submitted. Provide statement below.

NOTE: applicants applying under the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act MUST provide all performance evaluations, for each qualifying period of temporary employment used to meet eligibility to apply under this authority. Statements why performance evaluations are not available will not be accepted. Official memorandum from a supervisor confirming performance is/was at an acceptable level for the duration of employment claimed is acceptable (memorandum must include position title/series/grade, dates of employment, and statement concerning acceptability of performance).
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
3. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
6. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
7. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. My performance is at an acceptable level and I am not serving under a formal Performance Improvement Plan (PIP).
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Not Applicable
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Park Ranger (Protection), GS-0025-11 position. Your responses to this questionnaire in conjunction with other portions of your completed application will be evaluated to determine your qualifications. Please carefully follow all instructions before submitting your responses. You must select only ONE response for each item. If you change a response, be certain to erase (unclick) the incorrect response before you submit the application. Once you have submitted your application, items with more than one response or that are left blank will not receive credit. YOUR RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWER YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS. IF NOT, YOU WILL BE FOUND TO BE NOT QUALIFIED OR YOUR SCORE WILL BE LOWERED.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS for GS-11
1. From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience or education requirements for the Park Ranger (P), GS-0025-11 position. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.

 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS/GL-09 in the Federal Service. Specialized experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to successfully perform the duties of this position. Examples of qualifying specialized experience includes but is not limited to the following: (1) performing law enforcement duties for the protection, conservation, use, and management of natural and/or cultural resources in park areas or similar operations, which involved the application of law enforcement authorities and procedures to protect visitors and resources; (2) providing law enforcement or investigative services which include apprehending, detaining, detection, and prosecution of individuals; (3) applying knowledge of applicable laws, regulations, policies, and areas of jurisdiction when serving as a person with law enforcement authority; (4) responding to accidents, emergencies, and/or natural disaster. NOTE: You must include hours worked per week in your resume.
 B. I do not have the specialized experience described in A above, but I have completed 3 full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education OR complete a Ph. D. or equivalent doctoral degree related to this position (Major study -- natural resource management, natural science, earth sciences, history, archeology, anthropology, park and recreation management, law enforcement/police science, social sciences, museum sciences, business administration, public administration, behavioral sciences, sociology, or other closely related subjects pertinent to the management and protection of natural and cultural resources. Course work in fields other than those specified may be accepted if it clearly provides applicants with the background of knowledge and skills necessary for successful job performance in the position to be filled). NOTE: You must include a copy of your transcripts.
 C. I do not have 1 year of specialized experience as described in A above or the 3 years of graduate level study as indicated in B above, but I have an equivalent combination of education and experience. For example: I have 6 months of specialized experience (50% of the experience requirement, and two and a half years of graduate level education - only education in excess of the first 2 years of graduate level education is qualifying). NOTE: You must include a copy of your transcripts.
 D. I do not meet any of the above descriptions.
Selective Placement Factor - Previous Law Enforcement Experience
2. Prior law enforcement experience, gained by substantial service as a primary law enforcement position in the Federal government, or equivalent experience outside the Federal government is a mandatory prerequisite/selective factor of this position. Candidates without this prior law enforcement experience do not qualify for this position.
 A. I possess substantial documented experience in a primary law enforcement position in the Federal government, or equivalent documented experience outside the Federal government.
 B. I do not meet the primary law enforcement requirements for this position. By selecting this response, I understand that I will no longer be considered for this position.
Selective Placement Factor - Type 1 Law Enforcement Commission
3. In addition to the requirements in the questions above, selectees must possess a Type I National Park Service Law Enforcement Commission at time of application, which requires successful completion of an approved Law Enforcement Training Program. Please select the one response below that best describes your qualifications in this area. If you do not meet the requirements of this selective factor, you will be rated ineligible for these positions. Applicants must document how they meet this requirement, as indicated below, to be considered qualified for this position.

 A. I currently hold, or have previously held within the last three years, a full National Park Service Level I law enforcement commission. You must indicate your commission number and date, location and date of your last 40-hour refresher training, and the date of your last established proficiency in the use of firearms in your resume.
 B. I do not have a National Park Service Level I Law Enforcement Commission.
Selective Placement Factor - Emergency Medical Services (EMS) Certification
4. Selectee must possess a current National Registry certification at the Emergency Medical Responder level or higher (i.e. Emergency Medical Technician (EMT), Advanced EMT, Parkmedic or Paramedic) at time of application. Please select the response below that best describes your qualifications in this area. If you do not meet the requirements of this selective factor, you will be rated ineligible for these positions. Applicants must include a copy of their National Registry card in their application materials to be considered qualified for this position.

 A. I currently hold a National Registry Emergency Medical Responder (EMR) certification or higher (a copy of your current certification card must be included with your application materials).
 B. No, I do not have this certification (at time of application).
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected