Position Title
Patent Examiner (Biology)
Agency
Patent and Trademark Office
Announcement Number
PATS - DCOM-25-12753278-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, June 24, 2025 to Sunday, June 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former Federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
7
9
11
2. How did you hear about this USPTO job opportunity? (No Choice Limit)
 A. Email
 B. Facebook
 C. Instagram
 D. LinkedIn
 E. @USPTOJobs "X" (Twitter)
 F. Reddit
 G. Google Reviews
 H. Handshake University Platform
 I. Monster
 J. Indeed
 K. Glassdoor
 L. USAJOBS
 M. University Job Board
 N. Online Blog / Bulletin Board
 O. Friend
 P. USPTO Employee
 Q. Professional Society / Organization
 R. State Bar Association
 S. University Career Fair
 T. Conference
 U. University Career Placement Office
 V. Virtual Job Fair
 W. USPTO Information Session
 X. USPTO Jobs web pages
 Y. USPTO website
 Z. Other
3. Have you held a political appointment within the previous five-year period?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. If you are a current or former Federal civilian employee, by what agency/office or Department of Commerce bureau are you employed?
--Select-- 
--Select--
I am not a current Federal civilian employee
Other agency/office not in the Department of Commerce
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA)
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS)
Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census (CENSUS)
Department of Commerce, Economic Development Administration (EDA)
Department of Commerce, Economic and Statistics Administration (ESA)
Department of Commerce, International Trade Administration (ITA)
Department of Commerce, Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA)
Department of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
Department of Commerce, National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA)
Department of Commerce, National Technical Information Service (NTIS)
Department of Commerce, Office of the Secretary (OS)
Department of Commerce, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)
Department of Commerce, Office of the Inspector General
Other
5. If you answered "Other" to the above question, please enter the agency and organization.
6. Do you have any education/experience in intellectual property?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a current or former Patent Examiner at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. If you answered "Yes", to Questionnaire #3, please list your dates of employment at the USPTO. If you answered "No" to Questionnaire #3, type N/A.
9. Have you passed the Patent Bar Exam?
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. If you answered "Yes" to Questionnaire #1, please indicate where you obtained your education in intellectual property and/or experience in planning and conducting field of search for patent applications or in reviewing or analyzing patent applications. Please select all that apply.
 A. USPTO externships
 B. Externships
 C. Internships
 D. Patent searcher
 E. Patent law clerk
 F. JD with specialty in patent law
 G. Coursework
 H. Other
 I. I have no experience or education in intellectual property.
11. If you answered "Yes" please provide the date you passed the Patent Bar Exam. If you answered "No", type N/A.
12. Have you accepted a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP/"buyout") from a Federal agency within the past 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service system?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
14. Are you a retiree receiving a Federal annuity?
Note: If you are an annuitant, your salary or annuity may be reduced upon employment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Merit Hiring Plan Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.
(limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
The following questions apply to grade levels GS-07, GS-09, and GS-11. Select the response that best describes your experience and/or education related to the basic qualification requirements of a Patent Examiner (Biology). Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed explanation of the basic qualification requirements for this position.
1. Select the response that best describes your education and/or experience related to the Basic Qualification Requirements for a Patent Examiner (Biology), GS-1224.
 A. I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position.
 B. I possess a combination of education and experience -- courses equivalent to a major, as shown above, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 C. I will complete the qualifying education within 9 months from the date of application.
 D. I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.
2. Candidates for the GS-7 grade level - In addition to the Basic Requirement of the positions included in the vacancy announcement, choose the answer that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as related to the qualification requirements for this position:

You must have:
(A) One year of graduate-level education from an accredited college and/or university in biological sciences or other directly related field of study, OR
(B) Superior Academic Achievement, OR
(C) One year of specialized experience, OR
(D) Combination of education and experience in college-level education, training, and/or technical experience
 A. I have at least one-year of graduate-level education.
 B. Superior Academic Achievement- I meet 1 of the following: (1) In the upper one-third of my graduating class; OR (2) a GPA of 3.0 or higher out of 4.0, as recorded on official transcript, OR (3) a GPA of 3.5 or higher out of 4.0, OR (4) Honor society membership.
 C. I have at least one year of experience applying basic biological science, physics, or scientific principles, theories, concepts, and methodologies used in the evaluation of technology; assisting in the collection of and recognizing discrepancies in data.
 D. I have a combination of graduate level education that is less than 1 year and less than 1 year of specialized experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position.
 E. I do not meet any of the requirements listed above.
3. Candidates for the GS-9 grade level - In addition to the Basic Requirements, select the answer that best describes your education, experience, or combination of education and experience as it relates to the qualification requirements for this position:

You must have:
(A) Two years of graduate-level education from an accredited college and/or university in biological sciences or other directly related field of study, OR
(B) One year of specialized experience, OR
(C) Combination of education and experience in graduate-level education, training, and specialized experience.
 A. I have at least two years of graduate-level education leading to a master's degree or equivalent graduate degree in biological sciences or other directly related field of study. One year of full-time graduate education is considered to be the number of credit hours that the school attended has determined to represent 1 year of full-time study (If that number cannot be obtained from the school, 18 semester hours is considered an academic year of graduate study).
 B. I have at least one year of specialized experience, interpreting and applying intermediate biological science, physics, or scientific principles, theories, concepts, and methodologies used in the evaluation of technology; participating in planning and conducting research; applying appropriate references to the claimed invention.
 C. I have a combination of successfully completed graduate-level education, that is beyond the first year of progressive graduate study, and appropriate professional experience.
 D. I do not meet any of the requirements listed above.
4. Candidates for the GS-11 grade level - In addition to the Basic Requirements, select the answer that best describes your education, experience, or combination of education and experience as it relates to the qualification requirements for this position:

You must have:
(A) At least three years of progressively higher graduate-level education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D., or equivalent doctoral degree from an accredited college and/or university in biological sciences or other directly related field of study, OR
(B) One year of specialized experience, OR
(C) Combination of education and experience in graduate-level education, training, and specialized experience.
 A. I have at least three years of progressively higher graduate-level education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in biological sciences or other directly related field of study. One year of full-time graduate education is considered to be the number of credit hours that the school attended has determined to represent 1 year of full-time study (If that number cannot be obtained from the school, 18 semester hours is considered an academic year of graduate study).
 B. I have at least one year of specialized experience, interpreting and applying advanced biological science, physics, or scientific principles, theories, concepts, and methodologies used in the evaluation of technology; planning and conducting research; independently applying appropriate references to the claimed invention.
 C. I have a combination of successfully completed graduate-level education, that is beyond the second year of progressive graduate study, and appropriate professional experience.
 D. I do not meet any of the requirements listed above.
YOUR RESPONSES TO THE FOLLOWING QUESTIONS MUST BE SUPPORTED IN YOUR RESUME AND/OR TRANSCRIPT(S). FAILURE TO SUPPORT YOUR ANSWER(S) IN YOUR RESUME AND/OR TRANSCRIPT(S) MAY IMPACT YOU OR ELIMINATE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION. RESPONSES OF "NA" OR "SEE RESUME AND/OR TRANSCRIPTS" TO THE BELOW QUESTIONS MAY CAUSE YOU TO LOSE CONSIDERATION.
5. Select the choice that best describes your overall education and/or experience conducting research, analysis, and application of scientific principles in the technical area(s) below. This statement is a list of relevant technical areas. Please refer to them in order to respond to the questions following these listed areas: / Immunology including antibodies, B&T lymphocytes, antigen presenting cells / Stem cells and cell cultures / Nucleic acid related therapy / Enzymology, microbiology, and fermentation / Pharmaceutical and agricultural compositions / Nucleic acid assay / Combination of biology and computer science / Neurology, receptors, cytokines & recombinant hormones / Immunoassays and related devices / Virology, viral immunology, and viral pathogens / Plants (cultivators) / Bio-apparatus / Gram-positive/negative bacteria, parasitic and fungal immunology / Liposomes and nanoparticles / Bioacting plant, microbial and animal extracts / In vivo diagnostic agents.
 A. Yes, I have education and/or experience conducting research, analysis, and application of scientific principles in at least one of the technical areas(s) above.
 B. No, I do not have education and/or experience within biological sciences principles and concepts.
6. If you answered "Yes" to the previous Assessment Question, please select those technical area(s) below in which you have education and/or experience conducting research, analysis, and application of scientific principles. Please select all that apply.
 A. Immunology including antibodies, B&T lymphocytes, antigen presenting cells
 B. Stem cells and cell cultures
 C. Nucleic acid related therapy
 D. Enzymology, microbiology, and fermentation
 E. Pharmaceutical and agricultural compositions
 F. Nucleic acid assay
 G. Combination of biology and computer science
 H. Neurology, receptors, cytokines & recombinant hormones
 I. Immunoassays and related devices
 J. Virology, viral immunology, and viral pathogens
 K. Plants (cultivators)
 L. Bio-apparatus
 M. Gram-positive/negative bacteria, parasitic and fungal immunology
 N. Liposomes and nanoparticles
 O. Bioacting plant, microbial and animal extracts
 P. In vivo diagnostic agents
 Q. None of the above
7. Select the response that best describes your experience or education in at least one of the technical areas(s) above. -GS-09
 A. Possess prior educational or work/research experience focusing primarily on analyzing how various scientific principles in at least one of the technical area(s) above relate to each other and applying that knowledge in a new context.
 B. Possess prior educational or work/research experience which involved understanding basic scientific principles in at least one of the technical area(s) above.
 C. Do not possess prior educational or work/research experience in at least one of the technical area(s) above.
8. Select the response that best describes your experience or education in at least one of the technical areas(s) above. -GS-11
 A. Possess prior educational or work/research experience focusing primarily on conducting original research, writing research proposal/grant proposal/ journal articles or presenting original research on scientific principles in at least one of the technical area(s) above.
 B. Possess prior educational or work/research experience focusing primarily on analyzing how various scientific principles in at least one of the technical area(s) above relate to each other and applying that knowledge in a new context.
 C. Possess prior educational or work/research experience which involved understanding basic scientific principles in at least one of the technical area(s) above.
 D. Do not possess prior educational or work/research experience in at least one of the technical area(s) above.
9. Select the choice that describes your highest level of education and/or experience orally communicating with professors, clients, patent professionals, superiors, subordinates, or classmates on applying basic biological sciences principles and concepts.
 A. I have presented technical and/or legal information to a variety of audiences by conveying the results of research findings, analysis, rationale, and/or evaluation/conclusions of fact (for example, through a research project as part of my coursework, work project, capstone project, or thesis studies) in the application of biological sciences principles and concepts.
 B. I have participated in group projects and/or meetings to collect or disseminate technical information from groups of people in the advancement of biological sciences principles and concepts.
 C. I have facilitated discussions on the advancement of biological sciences principles and concepts.
 D. I do not have experience and/or education orally communicating with a wide range of diverse groups of people applying biological sciences principles and concepts.
10. Select the responses that best describe your education and/or experience in communicating in writing to develop documents related to biological sciences principles and concepts. Check all that apply;
 A. I have prepared a formal written product for a capstone or other research project in the biological sciences field.
 B. I have written reports, letters or memoranda related to biological sciences principles and concepts where I translated complex technical language for review by non- technical audiences.
 C. I have drafted patent applications related to biological sciences principles and concepts for clients or professionals in the intellectual property community.
 D. I do not have education and/or experience communicating in writing to develop work products related to biological sciences principles and concepts.
 E. I have written technical or legal documents related to biological sciences principles and concepts.
 F. I have prior educational or work/research experience focusing primarily on conducting original research, writing research proposal/grant proposal/ journal articles or presenting original research on scientific principles.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected