Position Title
Medical Records Technician (Cancer Registrar)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12813174-26-JlC Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 8, 2025 to Monday, October 20, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Medical Records Technician (Cancer Registrar) position with Bay Pines Healthcare System. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire. Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the qualification requirements for the Medical Records Technician (Cancer Registrar) position.

Full performance level for this position is GS-08.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS FOR Medical Records Technician (Cancer Registrar)

The following section is used to determine if you meet the basic requirements for this vacancy. Please choose the most appropriate answer in response to the following questions.


1.
Experience and Education

Experience: One year of experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology and general understanding of the health record. Six months of the required one year of experience must have provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) needed to perform MRT work.

OR,

Education: Two years above high school with a minimum of 12 semester hours directly related to MRT work (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, and introduction to health records).

OR,

Experience / Education Combination: Equivalent combinations of experience and education are qualifying. The following educational/training substitutions are appropriate for combining education and experience:
Six months of experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology and general understanding of the health record and one year above high school with a minimum of six semester hours of health information technology courses.
Successful completion of a course for medical technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or hospital training obtained in a training program given by the Armed Forces or the U.S. Maritime Service under close medical and professional supervision. Training may be substituted on a month-for-month basis for up to six months of experience, provided the training program included courses in anatomy, physiology, and medical record techniques and procedures. The position requires six additional months of experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology and general understanding of the health record.

*NOTE: If you are basing your qualification on education, you must submit transcript with application.

Do you possess one of the above to meet the experience and education requirement described above?
 Yes, I have One year of experience that indicates knowledge of medical?terminology and general understanding of the health record. Six months of the?required one year of experience must have provided the knowledge, skills, and?abilities (KSAs) needed to perform MRT work.
 Yes, I have two ears above high school with a minimum of 12 semester hours?directly related to MRT work (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy and?physiology, and introduction to health records).
 Yes, I have an equivalent combination of creditable experience and education which is qualifying towards meeting basic experience requirements.
 No, I do not meet the experience and/or education described above.


GRADE LEVEL REQUIREMENTS FOR Medical Records Technician (Cancer Registrar), GS-08 

The following is used to determine the grade requirements for this position. Please answer the following questions by selecting the most appropriate response in regard to your knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs). Please ensure your resume details your knowledge, skills, and abilities. No assumptions will be made.

Medical Records Technician (Cancer Registrar) at this level perform all tasks and duties autonomously. Searches the medical record to identify and abstract/code all information. Organizes and maintains the cancer registry data system. Reviews lifetime follow-up on patients including cancer status and vital status. Oversees tumor board documentation, ensuring documentation meets the requirements and standards set forth by ACoS and/or facility standards. Ascertains a random sampling of annual analytic case load for physician review to ensure quality registry data.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Experience. One year of experience equivalent to the next lower level (GS-07). Knowledge, skills, and abilities at the next lower grade level are:
Knowledge of pathophysiology to understand the spread of the cancer disease process.
Ability to analyze the electronic health record and enter appropriate data into the OncoTrax cancer registry software abstract.
Knowledge of American College of Surgeons (ACoS) standards regarding tumor boards, including clinical staging, prognostic indicators, clinical guidelines, and clinical trials availability.

Do you meet the one year of experience at the next lower grade level (GS-07) requirements as described above? 
Note: Please ensure your resume/CV/application contains sufficient information to support the level of experience/education/training; otherwise, we will not be able to award you credit for the experience/education/training you claim.
 Yes
 No


3.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Knowledge of professional registry operations.
Knowledge of medical terminology, staging of cancer, and requirements of internal and external approving organizations.
Knowledge of the cancer committee processes and procedures to improve patient care and verify compliance with American College of Surgeons (ACoS) and/or facility standards.
Ability to serve as a subject matter expert on cancer programs for the medical center.
Skill in utilizing electronic health records and cancer registry software.

Do you possess the knowledge, skills, and abilities described above to meet the GS-08 Medical Records Technician (Cancer Registrar)? 
Note: Please ensure your resume/CV/application contains sufficient information to support the level of experience/education/training; otherwise, we will not be able to award you credit for the experience/education/training you claim.
 Yes
 No


4.
Verification Statement - Select the appropriate answer to the statement below. Failure to provide an answer will result in your application not being considered for this position.

I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I understand the information provided above and certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify this information and do not wish to be considered for this position.


RESUME REMINDER - You must provide a complete application package which includes:
Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title and Grade Level (for Federal positions)
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and knowledge, skills and abilities required for the position)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Veteran's Preference does NOT apply to this occupation for FY 2026.  OCHCO Bulletin Subject: Annual Determination of Staffing Shortages, dated October 1, 2024. Although hybrid title 38 occupations follow title 5 Veterans' preference rules, as required by the Merit Systems Protection Board (Graves v. VA, 117 M.S.P.R. 697 (2012)), 38 U.S.C. § 7412 waives the requirement to apply Veterans' preference to external applicants for appointments made during the fiscal year to hybrid title 38 occupations among those reported to have the largest staffing shortages.
Proof of current certification, licensure or registration (if applicable)


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙