Position Title
Health Technician - Dodge City CBOC
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSS-12811223-26-CNH Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 2, 2025 to Wednesday, December 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in becoming a Health Technician at the Robert J. Dole VA Medical Center. The following pertains to your knowledge and/or education as a Health Technician. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO ANY OF THESE QUESTIONS MAY RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING.


1.
To qualify for this position, applicants must meet all requirements by the closing date of this announcement.

Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR): An IOR is a basic requirement that must be met in order to qualify for entry into this job series, and it is something that can't be waived. Specialized Experience: Positions in this series range widely in type and include support duties to medical or health personnel such as audiologists, speech pathologists, medical officers, and optometrists. Therefore, technician experience is experience that required application of the knowledge, methods, and techniques of the position to be filled.

GS-06 grade level: One year of specialized experience (equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in the federal service); experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities (KSA's) and other characteristics to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled, in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized experience includes: Phlebotomy technicians and procedures including the use of centrifuge and processing lab specimens. As well as Cardiac monitoring using appropriate telemetry equipment such as EKG, cardiac monitors, and other diagnostic equipment; monitoring patient's vital signs; recognizing, responding, and reporting signs and changes in cardiac rhythms; and ability to use computers and other basic office equipment to enter data.
OR;
Education: Graduate education or internship may meet the experience required above GS-5 only in those instances where it is directly related to the work of the position. Transcripts must be included if basing any qualifications on education.

 I met the IOR and have the one (1) year of specialized experience (equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in the federal service); experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities (KSA's) and other characteristics to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled, in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized experience includes: Phlebotomy technicians and procedures including the use of centrifuge and processing lab specimens. As well as Cardiac monitoring using appropriate telemetry equipment such as EKG, cardiac monitors, and other diagnostic equipment; monitoring patient's vital signs; recognizing, responding, and reporting signs and changes in cardiac rhythms; and ability to use computers and other basic office equipment to enter data. I understand my resume must display this specialize experience.
 I met the IOR and have graduate education or internship may meet the experience required above GS-5 only in those instances where it is directly related to the work of the position. I understand that Transcripts must be included if basing any qualifications on education. I have included the transcripts.
 I do not meet the IOR and specialized experience or education listed above, therefore I am ineligible for this position.


To apply for this position, you must provide a complete Application Package which includes: Resume (required) - Resume must include the following information for each job listed: job title, duties, start and end dates, full time or part time status (include hours worked per week). Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Copy of Transcripts (if applicable): Transcript must include the following information to be considered acceptable: student's name, college/ university name, degree obtained, and date degree conferred. Diplomas will not be accepted.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙