Position Title
Procurement Analyst
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLAJ7-25-12764863-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 24, 2025 to Friday, August 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. .

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
2. Do you have a current (or last) performance rating of at least Fully Successful or the equivalent?
 A. Yes. I am a current Federal employee or have been within the previous 52 weeks and my most recent performance rating of record is at or above the Fully Successful or equivalent level.
 B. I am a current Federal employee but have not yet received a Federal performance rating.
 C. I am not a current Federal employee or have not been during the previous 52 weeks, therefore I do not possess a Federal performance rating.
 D. No. My performance rating is below the Fully Successful or equivalent.
3. Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) in the past 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement
Assessment 1
1. The purpose of this next question is to verify that you meet the Basic DoD 1102 requirements for this position. Please select the best answer that fits your situation. FAILURE TO ANSWER THIS QUESTION WILL MAKE YOU INELIGIBLE.

 A. I have received a baccalaureate degree from an accredited educational institution authorized to grant baccalaureate degrees. Non-DLA serviced applicants must submit transcripts. DLA applicants should ensure transcripts are on file in eOPF.
 B. I am a current civilian employee in DoD or member of the Armed Forces, who occupied an 1102 position, contracting officer position, or comparable military contracting position with authority to award or administer contracts above the simplified acquisition threshold on or before September 30, 2000, are excluded from the requirements of A above.
 C. I do not possess the required education and/or experience to qualify for this position.
2. This next question will be used to identify whether you meet the necessary Critical Acquisition Position for this position. Please select the best answer that fits your situation. FAILURE TO ANSWER THIS QUESTION WILL MAKE YOU INELIGIBLE.

 A. I possess 4 years of acquisition experience.
 B. I do not possess the requirement mentioned above.
3. From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.

 A. I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Utilizes knowledge and experience of Federal/DoD/DLA procurement systems, policies, and processes to develop, implement, evaluate, and improve these areas; Effectively applies analytical principles and techniques; Develops long-range goals and objectives to enhance programs in direct support of the acquisition community and in line with overall agency strategic goals and initiatives; and Performs as lead analyst over procurement issues and problems of particularly high visibility and criticality to the agency.
 B. I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.
In this part you will respond to questions about your experience as it relates to the position for which you are applying. For each task question, choose the level description that best describes your experience and/or training. Your responses must be fully supported within the text of your resume. Failure to properly identify your experience may result in the lowering of your overall score and/or your disqualification for this position.
4. From the following responses, please select the statement that describes your level of experience presenting analytical findings related to Procurement processes and systems.

 A. I have prepared a brief related to Procurement process and systems improvements to my supervisor in order to be presented to management officials.
 B. I have presented analytical findings and recommendations for Procurement process and system improvements to management and high level officials.
 C. I have conducted briefings to high level officials, but not related to Procurement process and system improvements.
 D. None of the above.
5. From the following responses, please select the statement that describes your level of experience with analyzing, assessing, developing, and implementing enterprise-wide and local procurement policies and procedures.

 A. I am aware of established procurement policies and procedures followed on a daily basis.
 B. I have assessed established procurement policies and procedures and have made recommended changes or enhancements to my supervisor based on my assessment.
 C. I have developed procurement policies and procedures for contracting personnel and ensured proper implementation and performance.
 D. None of the above.
6. From the following responses, please select the statement that BEST describes your level of experience with contract reviews and policy revisions.

 A. I have performed contract oversight reviews in accordance with established polices and identified required policy changes when new legislative/regulatory requirements have been released.
 B. As a regular part of my job, I perform contract reviews against established policies.
 C. In the course of contract reviews, I have identified policies that require updating and have presented changes to leadership.
 D. None of the above
7. From the following responses, please select the level that best describes your knowledge performing process capability and process evaluation studies.

 A. As a regular part of my job, I perform process capability and process evaluation studies to analyze trends and develop recommendations to improve the overall success of the process
 B. I have led a team to conduct process evaluation studies to analyze trends and develop recommendations to improve the process.
 C. As a regular part of my job I perform process capability and process evaluation studies.
 D. None of the above
8. From the following responses, please select the statement that describes your experience recommending procurement process enhancements and process improvements.

 A. I have very limited experience preparing and advocating for procurement process enhancements.
 B. I have prepared and advocated for minor procurement process enhancements.
 C. I have significant experience preparing and advocating for complex procurement process enhancements.
 D. None of the above.
9. From the following responses, please select the statement that describes your level of experience with analyzing data:

 A. As a regular part of my job, I perform data analysis to identify trends and develop recommendations to improve the overall success of the Procurement process.
 B. I have led a team to conduct data analysis to identify trends and develop recommendations to improve the Procurement process.
 C. As a regular part of my job I perform data analysis.
 D. None of the above.
10. Develops long-range goals and objectives to enhance programs in direct support of the acquisition community and in line with overall agency strategic goals and initiatives.

 A. I have very limited experience developing long-range goals and objectives in line with overall agency strategic goals and initiatives.
 B. I have experience developing long-range goals and objectives in line with overall agency strategic goals and initiatives.
 C. I have expert experience developing long-range goals and objectives in line with overall agency strategic goals and initiatives.
 D. None of the above
11. Functions as an advisor to the agency's senior officials and other high level agency personnel. Advises leadership of the advantages and disadvantages of various methods and approaches for resolution of problems.

 A. I have expert experience serving as an advisor to the agency’s senior officials and other high level personnel providing advice on advantages and disadvantages of various methods and approaches for resolution of problems.
 B. I have very limited experience serving as an advisor to the agency’s senior officials and other high level personnel providing advice on advantages and disadvantages of various methods and approaches for resolution of problems.
 C. I have experience serving as an advisor to the agency’s senior officials and other high level personnel providing advice on advantages and disadvantages of various methods and approaches for resolution of problems.
 D. None of the above
12. Represents an organization in meetings with members of Congress or their staff and White House personnel.

 A. I have had very limited experience representing an organization in meetings with members of Congress or their staff and White House personnel.
 B. I have had expert experience in representing an organization in meetings with members of Congress or their staff and White House personnel.
 C. I have experience serving as an advisor in meetings with members of Congress or their staff and White House personnel.
 D. None of the above.
13. Prepares responses to Congressional inquiries involving Agency competition matters.

 A. I have occasionally reviewed responses to Congressional inquiries involving Agency competition matters.
 B. I have very limited experience of preparing responses to Congressional inquiries involving Agency competition matters.
 C. I have significant experience preparing responses to Congressional inquiries involving Agency competition matters.
 D. None of the above.
14. Responds to routine Congressional inquiries or develops supporting information for top Agency management.

 A. I have very limited experience developing supporting information on responses to Congressional inquiries.
 B. I have had expert experience in responding to routine Congressional inquiries and developing supporting information for top Agency management.
 C. I have experience responding to routine Congressional inquiries for top Agency management to review.
 D. None of the above.
15. Represents the Agency in the planning and execution of major training efforts.

 A. I provided support with planning, representing, and execution of the Agency training plans.
 B. I have occasionally provided input on the Agency training plan.
 C. I have experience developing training plans for the Agency.
 D. None of the above.
16. Conducts briefings for management officials, explaining proposals and findings of studies to internal and external customers.

 A. I have prepared briefings for management, explaining proposals and findings of the studies.
 B. I have prepared and presented briefings for management officials to internal and external customers explaining proposals and findings of studies.
 C. I have assisted with the findings of the studies and briefing internal customers.
 D. None of the above.
17. From the list below, select the response which corresponds to the highest level of education you have achieved. Education claimed may be verified upon selection. If you do not possess or are unable to provide proof of education claimed, you may be found ineligible.

 A. Below a Master’s Degree
 B. Master’s Degree OR Above
18. Have you received an honorary or monetary award from your employer (government civilian, military, or private sector) during the last 3 years?

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected