Position Title
Immigration Officer
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12805609-FDSFDD-IMP-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 30, 2025 to Thursday, October 9, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current USCIS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 Yes
 No


2.
The Reemployment Priority List (RPL) is the mechanism DHS uses to give reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees separated by reduction-in-force (RIF), or fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a former USCIS employee?  If so, have you met all of the following criteria?
Registered for the RPL program, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupied a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current/most recent performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent, and
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606
For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, visit 5 CFR 330 Subpart B.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
My SF-50 showing Separation - RIF. If that is not available yet, then official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who is in a permanent position that is in the competitive service (see block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type)?

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of our SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Phoenix, AZ
 B. Tucson, AZ
 C. Fort Smith, AR
 D. Fresno, CA
 E. Imperial, CA
 F. Los Angeles, CA
 G. Sacramento, CA
 H. San Bernardino, CA
 I. San Francisco, CA
 J. Santa Ana, CA
 K. Centennial, CO
 L. Fort Myers, FL
 M. Hialeah, FL
 N. Jacksonville, FL
 O. Kendall, FL
 P. Miami, FL
 Q. Oakland Park, FL
 R. Orlando, FL
 S. Royal Palm Beach, FL
 T. Tampa, FL
 U. Atlanta, GA
 V. Atlanta, GA
 W. Boise, ID
 X. Chicago, IL
 Y. Indianapolis, IN
 Z. Des Moines, IA
 AA. Overland Park, KS
 AB. Wichita, KS
 AC. Louisville, KY
 AE. New Orleans, LA
 AF. Portland, ME
 AG. Camp Springs, MD
 AH. Boston, MA
 AI. Lawrence, MA
 AJ. Minneapolis, MN
 AK. Kansas City, MO
 AL. Lees Summit, MO
 AM. Saint Louis, MO
 AN. Helena, MT
 AO. Lincoln, NE
 AP. Omaha, NE
 AQ. Las Vegas, NV
 AR. Reno, NV
 AS. Bedford, NH
 AT. Mount Laurel, NJ
 AU. Newark, NJ
 AV. Albuquerque, NM
 AW. Buffalo, NY
 AX. New York, NY
 AY. Charlotte, NC
 AZ. Durham, NC
 BA. Cincinnati, OH
 BB. Columbus, OH
 BC. Oklahoma City, OK
 BD. Portland, OR
 BE. Philadelphia, PA
 BF. Pittsburgh, PA
 BG. Johnston, RI
 BH. Charleston, SC
 BI. Greer, SC
 BJ. Memphis, TN
 BK. Nashville, TN
 BL. Edinburg, TX
 BM. El Paso, TX
 BN. Houston, TX
 BO. Irving, TX
 BP. San Antonio, TX
 BQ. Salt Lake City, UT
 BS. Norfolk, VA
 BT. Seattle, WA
 BU. Spokane, WA
 BV. Yakima, WA
 BW. Milwaukee, WI
 BX. Casper, WY
 AD. Williamsburg, KY
 BR. Williston, VT


2.
There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 Yes
 No
 The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.


3.
Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) from the Federal Government within the last 5 years?
 Yes
 No


4.

This job is being posted for individuals who reside within the local commuting area* of the announced duty location on a permanent basis. All candidates must meet this requirement, with the exception of Refugee, Asylum and International Operations (RAIO) overseas employees approved for rotation OR unless on an approved exemption OR at an approved USCIS location. In these cases you can apply for any location.

Do you reside within the local commuting area* of the announced duty location on a permanent basis OR are a RAIO overseas employee approved for rotation OR on an approved exemption** OR at an approved USCIS location***?

*Local commuting area is defined as a distance that you can reasonably travel back and forth daily to the announced duty location from your permanent residence.

**An approved exemption is: military spouses, approved RA, or temporary long distance remote status (documentation required).

***An approved USCIS location is defined as pre authorized space designated for use by the program, office or directorate.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

The address listed on your USA Jobs profile or resume must show that you reside within the local commuting area of the announced duty location.
If on an approved exemption you must provide the most recent approval.
If at an approved USCIS location you must provide the original reporting instructions.
 Yes
 No


5.
If your status changes, requiring you to report to a physical location you may be directed to report to one of the duty locations listed in the original job opportunity announcement without relocation expenses.
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I understand this requirement.
By answering NO to this question, I am asking to be removed from further consideration for this position.
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you a current USCIS employee who opted to take part of the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) and are currently in an Administrative Leave category?
 Yes.
 No.


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
GS-14 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the requirement as described above.


2.
You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.


3.
This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-14. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent?
 Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-14 grade level or equivalent.
 Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.


4.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience developing action plans to achieve goals?
 I have no experience, training, or education related to developing action plans to achieve goals.
 I completed education and/or training related to developing action plans to achieve goals, but do not have professional experience.
 I reviewed office goals for alignment with the organizational mission.
 I created action plans to implement and meet goals across program areas.
 I participated in developing action items to support establishing goals for a specific program area.
 I led others in the development of actions items to support specific goals in a program areas.


5.
Which statement best represents your highest level of experience developing immigration policies, programs, and procedures independently?
 I have no experience, training, or education related to developing immigration policies, programs or procedures.
 I completed education and/or training related to developing immigration policies, programs or procedures, but do not have professional experience.
 I independently conducted research on program management best practices.
 I reviewed proposed legislation on adjudications programs and recommended changes where appropriate.
 I participated in working groups to negotiate policy changes.
 I prepared executive-level reports on the impact of proposed immigration adjudicative policy on the agency mission.


6.
Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience developing immigration policies, programs, and procedures.
 I have no experience, training, or education related to developing immigration policies, programs, or procedures.
 I completed education and/or training related to developing immigration policies, programs, or procedures, but do not have professional experience.
 I conducted research to assist senior staff develop immigration adjudication regulations, policies, and procedures.
 I created standard operating procedures to support new programs, policies, and procedures.
 I reviewed proposed legislation on adjudications programs and recommended changes.
 I participated in working groups to negotiate policy changes and implement recommendations to meet the organization's mission.
 I created executive-level reports on the impact of proposed immigration adjudicative policy on the mission.


7.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience interacting with intelligence agencies?
 I analyzed intelligence received indirectly and incorporated it into decision-making.
 I have been a point of contact for intelligence agencies.
 I routinely cultivated relationships with intelligence agencies to promote inter-agency collaboration.
 I have no experience, training, or education related to interacting with intelligence agencies.
 I completed education and/or training related to interacting with intelligence agencies, but do not have professional experience.


8.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience interacting with law enforcement entities?
 I analyzed law enforcement information received indirectly and incorporated it into decision-making.
 I have been a point of contact for law enforcement entities.
 I cultivated relationships with law enforcement entities to promote inter-agency collaboration.
 I have no experience, training, or education related to interacting with law enforcement entities.
 I completed education and/or training related to interacting with law enforcement entities, but do not have professional experience.


9.
I have independently planned projects that resulted in organizational-wide improvements.
 True
 False


10.
Select the written documents you have drafted pertaining to immigration law.
 A. Explanation of rules or regulations
 B. Response to applicants regarding pending status inquiries
 C. Reports regarding compliance
 D. Requests for documentation from applicants
 E. College papers pertaining to immigration law
 F. Legal research projects
 G. None of the above


11.
Select the activities you have performed pertaining to immigration fraud.
 A. I analyzed operational aspects of anti-fraud and law enforcement checks (e.g., policies, procedures, systems).
 B. I gathered and organized records in databases to assist Immigration Officers in creating reports.
 C. I accessed law enforcement and commercial databases to extract information for background checks as part of immigration fraud detection.
 D. I participated in special groups (e.g., inter-agency or intra-agency task forces) to enhance U.S. national security and the integrity of the legal immigration system.
 E. None of the above


12.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience developing program policies for implementation?
 I have no experience, training, or education developing policies.
 I completed education and/or training related to developing policies, but do not have professional experience.
 I provided input to supervisors or subject matter experts on the development of new policies.
 I drafted policy proposals for the application of policy to a specific program.
 I independently developed and implemented new policies that directly impacted programs.


13.
If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "pass," "satisfactory," or better?
 Yes
 No
 I am a Federal employee but have not received a performance rating.
 Not applicable. I am not a Federal employee.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


14.
Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙