Position Title
STUDENT TRAINEE (CONTRACTING)
Agency
Defense Acquisition University
Announcement Number
DAU-STU-12804444-25-EN Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 1, 2025 to Friday, October 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following section is used to determine your eligibility for appointment in the Federal Government or Status for referral consideration. Please indicate by your responses all categories of eligibilities for which you would like to be considered. You will only be considered under eligibilities that you select. If you are not able to select at least one of the eligibilities below, you are not eligible to be considered for this position.

NOTE: You must submit the required documentation to verify EACH eligibility you select. Failure to provide the required documents will render you not eligible for consideration.

See instructions under the "How to Apply" tab for submitting documentation.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 3 location(s).
 A. Redstone Arsenal, AL
 B. Los Angeles, CA
 C. Schriever AFB, CO
 D. Jacksonville, FL
 E. Orlando, FL
 F. Rock Island, IL
 G. Aberdeen Proving Ground, MD
 H. Fort Detrick, MD
 I. Patuxent River, MD
 J. Warren, MI
 K. Lakehurst, NJ
 L. Morris County, NJ
 M. Oklahoma City, OK
 N. Mechanicsburg, PA
 O. Philadelphia, PA
 P. Fort Belvoir, VA
 Q. Lorton, VA
 R. Pentagon, Arlington, VA
 S. Prince George County, VA
 T. Quantico, VA
 U. Richmond, VA


2.
Are you a retired Federal employee receiving an annuity from the Office of Personnel Management? NOTE: If you answered yes to this question, attach a copy of your retirement Standard Form 50 to your application.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former (within last five-years) Executive Branch political appointee; Schedule C excepted service appointee (confidential, policy or transitional role), or non-career or limited appointee in the Senior Executive Service (SES)?

Agencies must request OPM approval to appoint the following current or former (within five-years) Executive Branch political appointees to permanent competitive service, non-political excepted service, or career SES positions:
https://www.opm.gov/FAQs/QA.aspx?fid=023f2059-dff7-4307-89b4-c553c218af1d&pid=08248d29-d26e-44b6-9988-57655358d509
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please accurately identify your level of training or experience when completing this questionnaire. Your responses will be evaluated and verified based on your submitted resume. Ensure that your resume accurately describes the level of education and/or experience claimed in the assessment questionnaire. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. By continuing in the application process, I acknowledge that my self-assessment questionnaire score may be reduced, and I may lose consideration for this position if the work experience described in my resume does not support my responses to the assessment questionnaire.


1.
Select the choice that best describes your academic classification. You MUST submit transcripts or proof of education to verify your claim.
 I have completed my freshman year.
 I have completed my sophomore year.
 I have completed my junior year.
 I have completed my senior year.
 I am a college graduate.
 I am enrolled in a graduate studies program (i.e. Masters, PhD, Law School or Medical School).
 None of the above.


2.
Are you currently in good academic standing with your university?
 Yes, I am currently in good academic standing.
 No, I am not currently in good academic standing.


3.
This position requires a minimum cumulative Grade Point Average (GPA) of 3.0 or higher on a 4.0 scale. What is your current GPA on a 4.0 scale?  If you are a transfer student with no GPA or attend a school that does not use a GPA grading system, please enter 9.99


4.
What is your expected graduation date?


5.
What college or university do you attend?


6.
What is your academic major?


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
Are you enrolled full-time in an undergraduate degree program with at least 24 credit hours?
 Yes
 No


8.
How did you hear about this job?
 Social Media
 Handshake
 USAJobs
 Defense Acquisition University (DAU)
 Federal Employee
 College Career Center
 Friend
 Former DCAIP Intern
 Other


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


9.
Do you certify, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.)? Do you understand that the information provided may be investigated? Do you understand that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with your application may be grounds for not hiring you or for firing you after you begin work? Do you also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001)?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙