Position Title
Powerplant Supervisor II
Agency
Bureau of Reclamation
Announcement Number
BOR-MB-25-MP-12778034-SL Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, August 5, 2025 to Friday, August 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please read the following eligibility questions carefully. If you do not meet any of the eligibilities, you will not be considered for this position.
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. 30% or More Disabled Veteran

To claim eligibility as a 30% or more disabled veteran, please confirm that you are a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions and:
You have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more; OR
You are retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
A copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service; AND
A copy of your disability letter which includes the combined service connected disability percentage rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service; AND
The Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, SF-15.
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

Are you a Veteran eligible to apply under the 30% disabled veterans hiring authority?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Current Bureau of Reclamation Employee (Competitive)

To claim Competitive eligibility as a Current Bureau of Reclamation employee, please confirm:

You currently hold a position at a grade level (or equivalent) that is at or below the advertised full performance level for this position.
(Trades Positions) You currently hold a position at a pay rate that is at or below the advertised full performance level for this position.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) representing your permanent, competitive status including:
Career or Career-Conditional status (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND
Competitive Service status (Position Occupied field is 1). 
In addition to submitting your most recent SF-50, if you have held a higher grade level on a permanent basis please submit a copy of SF-50, which documents the highest grade you have held on a permanent basis. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.

Are you a current, permanent Bureau of Reclamation employee applying for competitive Promotion?

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Current Bureau of Reclamation Employee (Reassignment, Change to Lower Grade, Re-Promotion)

To claim Non-Competitive eligibility as a Current Bureau of Reclamation employee, please confirm you are applying to be considered for one of the following:
Reassignment: You currently hold the same grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being advertised.
Change to Lower Grade: You currently hold a higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential than the position being advertised.
Re-Promotion: You have previously held the same grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being advertised.
Trades Positions: You currently hold or have previously held a position at the same or higher rate of pay as the position being advertised. 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) representing your permanent, competitive status including:
Career or Career-Conditional status (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND
Competitive Service status (Position Occupied field is 1). 
In addition to submitting your most recent SF-50, if you have held a higher grade level on a permanent basis please submit a copy of SF-50, which documents the highest grade you have held on a permanent basis. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.

Are you a current, permanent Bureau of Reclamation employee applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change to Lower Grade or Re-Promotion?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center or review The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior with CTAP eligibility?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Current Department of the Interior Employee (Competitive)

To claim competitive eligibility as a Current Department of the Interior employee, please confirm:
You currently hold a position at a grade level (or equivalent) that is at or below the advertised full performance level for this position.
(Trades Positions) You currently hold a position at a pay rate that is at or below the advertised full performance level for this position.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) representing your permanent, competitive status including:
Career or Career-Conditional status (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND
Competitive Service status (Position Occupied field is 1). 
In addition to submitting your most recent SF-50, if you have held a higher grade level on a permanent basis please submit a copy of SF-50, which documents the highest grade you have held on a permanent basis. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.

Are you a current Department of the Interior employee applying for competitive Promotion?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Current Department of the Interior Employee (Reassignment, Change to Lower Grade, Re-Promotion)

To claim Non-Competitive eligibility as a Current Department of the Interior employee, please confirm you are applying to be consider for one of the following:
Reassignment: You currently hold the same grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being advertised.
Change to Lower Grade: You currently hold a higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential than the position being advertised.
Re-Promotion: You have previously held the same grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being advertised.
Trades Positions: You currently hold or have previously held a position at the same or higher rate of pay as the position being advertised. 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) representing your permanent, competitive status including:
Career or Career-Conditional status (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND
Competitive Service status (Position Occupied field is 1). 
In addition to submitting your most recent SF-50, if you have held a higher grade level on a permanent basis please submit a copy of SF-50, which documents the highest grade you have held on a permanent basis. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.

Are you a current Department of the Interior employee applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change to Lower Grade or Re-Promotion?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Current Federal Employee Eligible for Transfer (Promotion)

To claim Transfer eligibility as a current federal employee, please confirm you are currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency, other than the Department of the Interior (DOI), AND:

You currently hold a position at a grade level (or equivalent) that is at or below the advertised full performance level for this position.
(Trades Positions) You currently hold a position at a pay rate that is at or below the advertised full performance level for this position.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), or equivalent personnel action, representing your permanent, competitive status including:

Career or Career-Conditional status (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND
Competitive Service status (Position Occupied field is 1).
In addition to submitting your most recent SF-50, if you have held a higher grade level on a permanent basis please submit a copy of SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, which documents the highest grade you have held on a permanent basis. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.

Are you a current non-DOI federal agency employee with transfer eligibility to a higher level position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Current Federal Employee Eligible for Transfer (Lateral)

To claim Transfer eligibility as a current federal employee, please confirm:

You are currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency, other than the Department of the Interior (DOI), and currently hold or have previously held a position at or above the full performance level of this position.
(Trades Positions) You are currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency, other than the Department of the Interior (DOI), and currently hold or have previously held a position at a pay rate that is the same or higher than the position being advertised. 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), or equivalent personnel action, representing your permanent, competitive status including:
Career or Career-Conditional status (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND
Competitive Service status (Position Occupied field is 1). 
In addition to submitting your most recent SF-50, if you have held a higher grade level on a permanent basis please submit a copy of SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, which documents the highest grade you have held on a permanent basis. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.

Are you a current non-DOI federal agency employee with transfer eligibility to a lateral position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Former Federal Employee Eligible for Reinstatement (Higher Level)

To claim Reinstatement eligibility as a former federal employee, please confirm you were you formerly employed as a federal civilian on a permanent competitive appointment, but are not currently a permanent competitive federal employee; AND that, while serving on that appointment, you met one of the following: 

You held a position at a grade level (or equivalent) that is at or below the advertised full performance level for this position. 
(Trades Positions): You held a position at a pay rate that is at or below the advertised full performance level for this position.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), or equivalent personnel action, reflecting your permanent, competitive status reflecting one of the criteria listed in the below bullets: 

You are a former Federal employee who previously attained Career status (identified on your last Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) in Block 24 as "Tenure I" and in Block 34 as "Competitive Service"; OR
You are a former Federal employee with veterans' preference who previously attained Career-Conditional status (identified on your last SF-50 in Block 24 as "Tenure II" and in Block 34 as "Competitive Service"; OR
You are a former Federal employee without veterans' preference who separated from Government service within the past three years and previously attained Career-Conditional status (identified on your last SF-50 in Block 24 as "Tenure II" and in Block 34 as "Competitive Service." 

In addition to submitting your most recent SF-50, if you have held a higher grade level on a permanent basis please submit a copy of SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, which documents the highest grade you have held on a permanent basis. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.

Are you a former federal employee with Reinstatement eligibility to a higher level position?



 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Former Federal Employee Eligible for Reinstatement (Lateral)

To claim Reinstatement eligibility as a Former Federal Employee, please confirm you were you formerly employed as a federal civilian on a permanent competitive appointment, but are not currently a permanent competitive federal employee; AND that, while serving on that appointment, you met one of the following: 

You held the same grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being advertised.
(Trades Positions): You held a position at the same or higher rate of pay as the position being advertised. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), or equivalent personnel action, reflecting your permanent, competitive status reflecting one of the criteria listed in the below bullets: 

You are a former Federal employee who previously attained Career status (identified on your last Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) in Block 24 as "Tenure I" and in Block 34 as "Competitive Service"; OR
You are a former Federal employee with veterans' preference who previously attained Career-Conditional status (identified on your last SF-50 in Block 24 as "Tenure II" and in Block 34 as "Competitive Service"; OR
You are a former Federal employee without veterans' preference who separated from Government service within the past three years and previously attained Career-Conditional status (identified on your last SF-50 in Block 24 as "Tenure II" and in Block 34 as "Competitive Service."

In addition to submitting your most recent SF-50, if you have held a higher grade level on a permanent basis please submit a copy of SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, which documents the highest grade you have held on a permanent basis. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.

Are you a former federal employee with Reinstatement eligibility to a lateral position?





 A. Yes
 B. No
12.

Individuals with Disabilities (Schedule A)

To claim eligibility under the Schedule A hiring authority for Individuals with Disabilities, please confirm you have a qualifying severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit documentation (such as a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist) specifying that you are eligible to apply using the Schedule A hiring authority.  Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information on hiring Individuals with Disabilities, review the resources in the USAJOBS Help Center. 

Are you eligible under the Schedule A, Individuals with Disabilities hiring authority?

 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)

To claim ICTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify ICTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center or review The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than The Department of the Interior?
 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA)

To claim LMWFA eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former term or temporary employee of a Land Management Agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation); AND
You were originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; AND
You served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; AND
You performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; AND
You have been separated for no more than two years and departed that position in good standing, if you are no longer employed by the land management agency.
To verify LMWFA eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include: 
Your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, or equivalent personnel action.
Your Notification of Personnel Action(s), Standard Form 50(s) reflecting you meet the time-in-grade regulations in 5 CFR 300, subpart F.
Your performance appraisal that demonstrates you meet the requirements outlined in the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act.
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center or review the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act FAQs.

Are you a current or former employee of a Land Management Agency with LMWFA eligibility?
 A. Yes
 B. No
15. Military Spouse

To claim Military Spouse eligibility under 5 CFR 315.612, please confirm you wish to be considered under this authority and you are one of the following: 

Active Duty Spouse
Includes all spouses currently married to members of the armed forces on active duty.
The military member must be on active duty in the armed forces or serving under orders specifying the individual is called or ordered to active duty for more than 180 consecutive days.
Based on 100% Disability - As a military spouse, you may be eligible to be considered under this authority if:
The military member was retired under Chapter 61 of title 10, United States Code with a 100% disability rating from the military; or
Was released from active duty and has a disability rating of 100% from the Department of Veterans' Affairs or the military department.
There is no geographic limit under this category, You will be required to provide documentation of your spouse's disability.
Based on Service Member's Death - As the military spouse, you may be eligible if the military member was killed while on active duty (it does not have to be combat related), and you have not remarried.
There is no geographic limitation under this category. You will be required to provide documentation on the death of the spouse and your marital status at the time of death.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility outlining one of the above. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information regarding Military Spouse, see the USAJOBS Help Center.

Do you wish to be considered for appointment as a Military Spouse?
 A. Yes
 B. No
16. Miscellaneous Appointing Authority

To claim eligibility under an alternate Miscellaneous Appointing Authority authorized by an OPM Interchange Agreement or another statute, please confirm you are a current or former employee of one of the below agencies:
Postal Service (Career).
Postal Rate Commission.
Government Accountability Office (GAO).
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts.
Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) employees of the Department of Defense. 
Tennessee Valley Authority. 
Nuclear Regulatory Commission. 
Veterans Health Administration of the Department of Veterans Affairs. 
Federal Aviation Administration. 
Department of Homeland Security, Transportation Security Administration. 
Corporation for National and Community Service.
Another agency with a miscellaneous appointing authority authorized by statutes outside of the 5 USC.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility by submitting copy(ies) of applicable personnel actions verifying current status of the above criteria with your application. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information on miscellaneous appointing authorities, visit the U.S. Office of Personnel Management navigate to Types of Appointments, Interchange Agreements With Other Merit Systems.

Are you eligible under a Miscellaneous Appointing Authority?
 A. Yes
 B. No
17. Pathways Program Participant Eligible for Conversion

To claim eligibility for conversion to an appointment as a Pathways Program participant, please confirm you meet one of the following:

Pathways Intern - You may be eligible for conversion if you are or were a Pathways Program Intern and meet the following criteria:
Completed at least 480 hours of work experience acquired through the Internship Program, except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, while enrolled as a full-time or part-time, degree- or certificate-seeking student;
Up to 160 of the 480-hour service requirement may be waived when an Intern completes 320 hours of career related experience or other experience that may be credited in accordance with 5 CFR 362.204(c) or 5 CFR 362.204(d).
Completed a course of academic study, within the 180-day period preceding the appointment, at a qualifying educational institution conferring a diploma, certificate, or degree;
Received a favorable recommendation for appointment by an official of the agency or agencies in which the Intern served;
Met the qualification standards for the position to which the Intern will be converted; and
Met agency-specific requirements as specified in the agency's Participant Agreement with the Intern.
Pathways Recent Graduate - You may be eligible for conversion if you are or were a Pathways Program Recent Graduate and meet the following criteria:
Successfully completed at least 1-year of continuous service in addition to all the requirements of the Recent Graduates Program;
Demonstrated successful job performance consistent with the applicable performance appraisal program established under the agency's approved performance appraisal system that results in a rating of record (or summary rating) of at least Fully Successful or equivalent and a recommendation for conversion by the first-level supervisor; and
Met the OPM Qualification Standard for the competitive service position to which the Recent Graduate will be converted.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation. For example, a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or additional supporting documentation. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.

Are you a Pathways Program participant that is eligible for conversion?
 A. Yes
 B. No
18.
Peace Corps or AmeriCorps VISTA Volunteer

To claim eligibility as a Peace Corps or AmeriCorps VISTA Volunteer, please confirm:
You a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months; OR
You a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and are requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student or other experience related to this position; OR
You a current or former Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation outlining one of the above. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.

Are you eligible based on your status as a current or former Peace Corps or AmeriCorps VISTA Volunteer?
 A. Yes
 B. No
19. Former Public Lands Corps Member

To claim eligibility under the Public Lands Corps (PLC) Hiring Authority, Public Law 109-154; please confirm:
You are you a former member of the PLC.
The completion of your last PLC project was within the last two years.
You served a minimum of 640 hours of satisfactory service on appropriate conservation projects and at least 120 hours served on a project utilizing the PLC legal authority.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation outlining the above. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, review the Department of the Interior PLC Hiring Authority Personnel Bulletin. 

Are you eligible for non-competitive hire under the PLC authority?
 A. Yes
 B. No
20. Special Hiring Authorities

To claim eligibility under a Special Appointing Authority under 5 CFR 315 (Subpart F), please confirm:
You are a former employee of the Canal Zone Merit System or Panama Canal Employment System; OR
You are a former employee who served in the Office of the President or Vice-President or on the White House Staff; OR
You are a disabled veteran who has completed a training course under Chapter 31 of Title 38, United States Code; OR
You are a former ACTION volunteer; OR
You are a certain current or former Foreign Service officer or employee; OR
You are a certain former Overseas employee; OR
You are a former employee of the Panama Canal Commission located in the United States; OR
You are a certain National Guard technician.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation outlining one of the above. For example, a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, or equivalent personnel action. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information on individual special hiring authorities, visit the USAJOBS Special Authorities resource page.

Are you eligible to apply for one of the above Special Hiring Authorities?
 A. Yes
 B. No
21. Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA)

To claim VEOA eligibility, please confirm you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions,  AND:
You served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (Note: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR
You are entitled to veterans' preference.
To verify VEOA eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service. 

Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

Are you a Veteran eligible to apply under the VEOA?
 A. Yes
 B. No
To verify your claimed eligibility to apply for this position vacancy, you must submit all supporting documentations outlined in the Required Documents section of this job announcement.
Preferences
1. Certificates of Eligible Applicants for this position may be shared with other Federal agencies at their request. This may include other Offices within the Bureau of Reclamation, other Bureaus within the Department of the Interior, and/or other Federal agencies. If your information is shared with another office/bureau/agency, you will be notified. Do you authorize the sharing of your information with other Federal agencies? If you respond "No" to this question, your information will not be shared and you will not be considered for employment by the requesting agency.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Where did you learn about this vacancy?
 A. American Society of Professional Estimators (ASPE)
 B. Association for Advancement of Cost Engineering International (AACEI)
 C. Engineering News-Record (ENR)
 D. Asianlife.com
 E. Diversenote.com
 F. NativeAmericanJobs.com
 G. WorkplaceDiversity.com
 H. Department of Veterans Affairs/Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment
 I. Division of Vocational Rehabilitation (DVR)
 J. National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE)
 K. Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities (HACU)
 L. Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU)
 M. Tribal Colleges and Universities (TCU)
 N. Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE)
 O. Referral from a Professor or Academic Advisor
 P. Referral from a College/University Career Placement Office
 Q. Referral from a non-listed Professional Organization
 R. Job/Career Fair
 S. Referral from a friend or family member
 T. Reclamation Employee
 U. Reclamation Internet Site
 V. Referral from a State or Local government
 W. Referral from another Federal Agency/employee
 X. USAJOBS.gov Search
 Y. Other Internet Site
 Z. Other
3. Provide specific information about your response to the previous question (i.e. professor's name and place of employment; college or university name; job/career fair and location held; friend's name; etc.). (limit 100 characters)
You are applying under the Merit Promotion announcement. If you want to be considered under the concurrent Delegated Examining announcement, you must submit a separate application under that announcement. Please call the Human Resources Office phone number listed on this announcement for clarification or further information.
Conditions of Employment
If selected, you will be subject to an initial suitability review, determined by a background investigation.
1. If selected, you are required to obtain and successfully pass a pre-employment physical examination by a licensed physician certifying to your ability to perform the duties of the position. This is not required if a comparable examination was required for placement in your current position and was completed within the last year; however, verifiable documentation of a comparable physical is required. Periodic (annual or biennial) physical examinations are required to be successfully passed for continued employment. Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical as described above as part of your employment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. My performance is at an acceptable level and I am not serving under a Notice of Opportunity to Demonstrate Acceptable Performance (NODAP).
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This position is designated as a Non-Sensitive/Moderate Risk position. It requires a fully completed and favorably adjudicated Public Trust Suitability Background Investigation (T2S or T2RS or equivalent) that is current (within the last 5 years). This is a condition of employment.

Are you willing to undergo a comprehensive background investigation which includes, but is not limited to, contact with all references, employers, co-workers, personal associates, and a review of your driving record, credit history, criminal history, and military service?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. You must maintain a valid State Driver's License at all times as the position requires operation of government vehicles on government and public roads. Do you currently have, or can you acquire prior to entrance on duty, a valid Driver's License and the ability to operate a government vehicle?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Powerplant Supervisor II position with Bureau of Reclamation. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1. Select the response that describes your journeyman or engineering experience in a powerplant (greater than 1 MW).

 A. I have experience –BOTH- as a journeyman Powerplant Electrician, Powerplant Communications and Instrumentation mechanic, or Powerplant Mechanic crafts –AND- have work experience in powerplant operations.
 B. I have experience –BOTH- as a journeyman Powerplant Operator –AND- work experience in powerplant maintenance.
 C. I have experience –BOTH- as a journeyman powerplant Electrical or Mechanical Engineer -AND- work experience in powerplant operations.
 D. I have journeyman experience as a Powerplant Electrician, Powerplant Operator, Powerplant Communications & Instrumentation Mechanic, or Powerplant Mechanic crafts.
 E. I have journeyman experience as a Powerplant Electrical or Mechanical Engineer.
 F. I have journeyman experience in industrial maintenance.
 G. I have journeyman experience as an Electrical or Mechanical Engineer.
 H. None of the above.
2. Select the response that best describes your experience SUPERVISING operation and maintenance activities of facilities and/or associated civil works structures on a regular basis.
 A. I have experience SUPERVISING operation and maintenance activities of hydroelectric powerplants and associated civil works structures on a regular basis.
 B. I have experience SUPERVISING operation and maintenance activities of powerplants and associated civil works structures on a regular basis.
 C. I have experience SUPERVISING operation and maintenance activities of civil works structures on a regular basis.
 D. I have experience LEADING operation and maintenance activities of hydroelectric powerplants and associated civil works structures on a regular basis.
 E. I have experience LEADING operation and maintenance activities of powerplants and associated civil works structures on a regular basis.
 F. I have experience SUPERVISING operation and maintenance activities in other technical/industrial/production areas such as manufacturing.
 G. I have experience LEADING operation and maintenance activities of civil works structures on a regular basis.
 H. I have experience PERFORMING operation and maintenance activities of hydroelectric powerplants and associated civil works structures but have had no actual supervisory or leader experience.
 I. I have experience PERFORMING operation and maintenance activities of powerplants and civil works structures but have had no actual supervisory or leader experience.
 J. I have experience PERFORMING operation and maintenance activities of civil works structures but have had no actual supervisory or leader experience.
 K. None of the above.
3. Select the response(s) that describe the lead or supervisory duties you have performed on a regular basis. (Regular means on a recurring basis.)

 A. Planned work to be accomplished by subordinates, set, and adjusted priorities, and prepared schedules for completion of work.
 B. Assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments and the capabilities of employees.
 C. Developed performance standards and evaluated work performance of subordinates.
 D. Given advice, counsel, or instruction to employees on both work and administrative matters.
 E. Interviewed candidates for positions in the unit, and recommended/selected for appointment, promotion, or reassignment.
 F. Heard and resolved complaints from employees.
 G. Effected disciplinary measures on employees for conduct or performance issues.
 H. Identified developmental and training needs of employees based on organizational goals and budget constraints.
 I. Rewarded employees for work accomplishments.
 J. Complied with diversity and equal employment opportunity obligations.
 K. Used formal mediation techniques to resolve complaints.
 L. Resolved union issues from employees covered under a labor-management agreement.
 M. Performed onsite inspections for quality, quantity of work, and solve problems that may arise during the assignment.
 N. None of the above.
4. Select the response(s) that describe the type(s) of staff you have led or supervised.

 A. Power or pumping plant Electricians.
 B. Power or pumping plant Mechanics.
 C. Communications and Instrumentation Mechanics.
 D. Building Maintenance.
 E. Power or pumping plant Operators.
 F. Administrative Support.
 G. Construction/Industrial journeyman.
 H. Journeyman Power or Industrial-related Mechanical or Electrical Engineers.
 I. None of the above.
5. Have you supervised employees covered under a labor-management agreement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Select the response that best describes your experience in managing the operation and maintenance of dams, powerplants, transmission/distribution systems, pumping plants, water conveyance, or other applicable industrial facilities.
 A. I have experience and am considered an expert in managing the operation and maintenance work associated with dams, powerplants, pumping plants, transmission/distribution, civil/water works, or applicable industrial facility that utilize electrical, mechanical, and hydraulic equipment to operate turbines, transformers, circuit breakers, pumps, gates, or valves.
 B. I have experience managing the operation or maintenance work associated with a dam, powerplant, pumping plant, transmission/distribution, civil/water works, or applicable industrial facility that utilizes electrical, mechanical, or hydraulic equipment to operate turbines, transformers, circuit breakers, pumps, gates, or valves.
 C. I have experience supervising the operation or maintenance activities on a regular basis of a dam, powerplant, distribution/transmission, civil/water works, pumping plant, or applicable industrial facility.
 D. I have experience supervising the operation or maintenance work on facilities that transport other fluids through open or closed systems using electrical, mechanical, or hydraulic equipment.
 E. I have experience leading operation or maintenance activities on a regular basis of a dam, powerplant, pumping plant, distribution/transmission, civil/water works, or applicable industrial facility.
 F. None of the above.
7. Select the response that best describes your overall technical experience in all aspects of operation and maintenance of dams, powerplants, pumping plants, canals, and water conveyance facilities.

 A. I have experience, and am considered an expert, performing operation and maintenance work associated with dams, pumping plants, canals, and water conveyance facilities that utilize electrical, mechanical, or hydraulic equipment to operate pumps, gates, and valves to lift, convey, and transport water at high rates of delivery and large volumes (dams, pumping plants, and canals with capacity of 250 cubic feet per second (CFS) or larger).
 B. I have experience performing operation and maintenance work associated with dams, pumping plants, canals, and water conveyance facilities that utilize electrical, mechanical, or hydraulic equipment to operate pumps, gates, and valves to lift, convey, and transport water (dams, pumping plants, and canals with capacity of 250 cubic feet per second (CFS) or larger).
 C. I have experience performing operation and maintenance work of similar facilities that are smaller in scale in terms of rate of delivery and volume (capacity less than 250 CFS) that use electrical, mechanical, or hydraulic equipment.
 D. I have experience performing operation and maintenance work on facilities that transport water or other fluids through open or closed systems using electrical, mechanical, or hydraulic equipment.
 E. I have education and training in operation and maintenance of water conveyance facilities.
 F. None of the above.
8. Select the response(s) that describe your experience in interpreting and applying instructions, specifications, and technical information.

 A. Read and interpret blueprints and drawings.
 B. Read and interpret manufacturer’s specifications.
 C. Use equipment maintenance manuals.
 D. Develop preventative maintenance procedures and schedules.
 E. Explain procedures and safe operating methods.
 F. Use equipment operation manuals.
 G. None of the above.
9. I have experience maintaining, troubleshooting, and repairing the following powerplant electrical equipment.

 A. Governors.
 B. Multiple stage air compressors.
 C. Generators - fixed (greater than 5 MW).
 D. Voltage regulators.
 E. Excitation systems, Rotating and or Electronic.
 F. Battery systems (125VDC 400AH or greater).
 G. Circuit breakers (600V - 24KV).
 H. Power circuit breakers (air, vacuum, oil or SF6).
 I. Transformers (greater than 10MVA).
 J. Controls, power, and indicators for auxiliary equipment.
 K. Cranes.
 L. Variable frequency drives (VFDs).
 M. Pumps (up to 500 gpm).
 N. Interrupters (115KV or greater).
 O. High voltage disconnects/ground switches.
 P. None of the above.
10. Select the response(s) that describe your experience in planning work.

 A. Plan the manpower and equipment needed.
 B. Estimate and track costs of time and materials.
 C. Create short- and long-term work schedules.
 D. Manage a job with more than one trade performing the work.
 E. Track job progress and job completion.
 F. Procure materials for the project.
 G. None of the above.
11. Select the response that best describes your experience using computerized preventative maintenance management programs.
 A. I have no education or experience using computerized preventative maintenance management programs.
 B. I have experience using computerized preventative maintenance management programs to review, analyze and document maintenance activities. My work was closely monitored by a supervisor or a senior employee to ensure quality.
 C. I have experience using computerized preventative maintenance management programs to review, analyze and document maintenance activities as a regular part of my job. I have applied my abilities independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I am considered an expert in using computerized preventative maintenance management programs to review, analyze and document maintenance activities.
 E. I have supervised other employees engaged in using computerized preventative maintenance management programs to review, analyze and document maintenance activities, or I am considered an expert who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them with using computerized preventative maintenance management programs for complicated review, analysis, and documentation of maintenance activities.
12. Select the response that best describes your experience using scheduling software.

 A. I have used scheduling software to manage large ($500,000 and above) construction or maintenance type projects.
 B. I have had experience using scheduling software to manage smaller (below $500,000) projects of any kind.
 C. I have had training in using scheduling software.
 D. I have no experience or training with scheduling software.
13. Select the response(s) that describe your experience with budget formulation and/or execution.

 A. I have experience formulating budgets for operation and maintenance of powerplants, dams, or pumping plants that include employee salaries, travel, transportation, equipment, materials and supplies, contract costs, and overhead costs.
 B. I have experience in monitoring, tracking, and reporting of monthly costs for operation and maintenance of powerplants, dams, or pumping plants that include employee salaries, travel, transportation, equipment, materials and supplies, contract costs, and overhead costs.
 C. I have experience in preparing written work plans, activity plans, justifications, and detailed budgets for powerplants and/or civil infrastructure.
 D. I have experience in evaluating resources required to accomplish tasks and estimate corresponding costs for staff, contract costs, equipment, permits, indirect costs, overhead, etc.
 E. I have education or training in budget and cost tracking processes.
 F. None of the above.
14. From the following list, select all the safety standards, guidelines, or procedures that you have received education or training AND have used in an industrial environment.

 A. Job Hazard Analysis (JHA).
 B. Hazardous Energy Control Program (Lockout/Tagout) (HECP).
 C. Switchman and Authorized Personnel Certification.
 D. Basic Electrical Safety in the Workplace.
 E. Hearing Conservation.
 F. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE).
 G. Respiratory Protection.
 H. Confined Space.
 I. Hazardous Communications and Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS).
 J. Fire extinguishers.
 K. Infectious control (bloodborne pathogens).
 L. Emergency response planning.
 M. Personal fall protection.
 N. Cardio-Pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) & Automated external defibrillator (AED).
 O. First aid.
 P. Hazardous waste/Spill Prevention.
 Q. Asbestos awareness.
 R. Workplace safety and health inspections.
 S. Construction safety.
 T. National Fire Protection Administration Standards (NFPA).
 U. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Standards.
 V. Defensive driving.
 W. Hazard identification.
 X. Emergency communications systems.
 Y. Electrical safety, including National Electric Code.
 Z. None of the above.
15. Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience with safe clearance (lockout/tagout) procedures.
 A. I have accepted/held clearances in a hydroelectric powerplant (greater than 1MW capacity) or large pumping plant (greater than 200 CFS capacity) and verified the clearance boundary.
 B. I have received clearances in a large powerplant (greater than 5MW capacity) following safe clearance and switching procedures.
 C. I have experience working under a clearance in an industrial maintenance facility following safe clearance and switching procedures.
 D. I have experience working under a clearance in an industrial maintenance facility and have followed safety procedures.
 E. I have no experience with safe clearance procedures.
16. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated.

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected