Position Title
Social Science Research Analyst (CMS Fellows Appointment)
Agency
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
Announcement Number
CMS-CMMI-25-12773774-CFA Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 5, 2025 to Thursday, September 11, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. San Francisco, CA
 B. Denver, CO
 C. Washington, DC
 D. Atlanta, GA
 E. Chicago, IL
 F. Bethesda, MD
 G. Woodlawn, MD
 H. Boston, MA
 I. Kansas City, MO
 J. New York, NY
 K. Philadelphia, PA
 L. Dallas, TX
 M. Seattle, WA
2. Would you accept a term appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Not Applicable
4. In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form (SF) 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 A. Yes, I have held one or more of these appointment types in the past five years.
 B. No, I have not held any of these appointment types in the past five years.
 C. I am unsure if I have held any of these appointment types in the past five years.
5. Select the response or responses that best describe how you heard about this position INITIALLY or the VERY FIRST TIME YOU ENCOUNTERED CMS? This question is only designed to assist with recruitment planning efforts.
 A. LinkedIn
 B. Handshake
 C. Symplicity
 D. Twitter
 E. YouTube
 F. Job Board (Indeed/Glassdoor/Monster, etc.) – Please specify the Job Board in the text box below.
 G. College/University Event – Please specify the Recruitment Event in the text box below.
 H. Career Fair (Specialty field, Veterans, Individuals with Disabilities, etc.) – Please specify the Career Fair in the text box below.
 I. Professional Organization Job board or event – Please specify the organization in the text box below.
 J. CMS Hosted Webinar – Please specify the Webinar Topic in the text box below.
 K. Friend/Family Member/CMS Employee
 L. CMS Website
 M. USAJOBS or USAJOBS Email Notification
6. Please provide the specifics about how you heard about this vacancy announcement. For example - where exactly did you hear of this position; which job fair did you interact with CMS; if it was word of mouth, who did you hear it from, etc? Enter N/A if "Not Applicable".
7. If you are a Federal Civilian employee, under what type of appointment are you currently serving?
 A. Career Appointment, Competitive Service
 B. Career-Conditional Appointment, Competitive Service
 C. Career Appointment, Excepted Service
 D. Career-Conditional Appointment, Excepted Service
 E. Term Appointment (Time-Limited not to exceed more than 1 year, not more than 4 years)
 F. Temporary Appointment (Time-Limited not to exceed 1 year or less)
 G. Pathways Program (Internship, Recent Graduates, or Presidential Management Fellows)
 H. Other
 I. Not Applicable
8. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held on a permanent basis. For example: GS-12. (limit 10 characters). If not applicable, please enter N/A. (limit 10 characters)
9. If you are, or ever were, a Federal civilian employee, please indicate the dates of the highest graded position you held on a permanent basis, example: MM-YYYY to MM-YYYY, or to Present. If not applicable, please enter N/A. (limit 150 characters)
10. Are you a Federal civilian retirement annuitant? If yes, and you are selected for this position, your salary may be reduced by the gross amount of the Federal annuity paid during the period of re-employment. Please click here for more information about retired annuitants.
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Have you accepted a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) from a Federal agency within the past 5 years? If yes, and you are selected for this position, you must repay the entire (pre-tax) amount of the incentive to the agency which paid the buyout before your first day of work in the new position. Please click here for more information about VSIP.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. In accordance with Executive Order (EO) 12964 and the Department of Health & Human Services (HHS) Federal Drug-Free Workplace Program governed by EO 12564, Federal employees MUST refrain from the use of ALL illegal drugs both on and off duty.

Marijuana use in any form (including medicinal), could deem a person unsuitable for Federal employment. State laws do not supersede Federal law.
Therefore, Federal employees MUST refrain from use of ALL illegal drugs (to include marijuana) on and off duty, even when residing in a state where marijuana use has been legalized for medicinal or recreational purposes.

Do you agree to refrain from all illegal drug use (to include but not limited to medicinal and recreational marijuana) if you are selected for Federal employment?
 A. Yes, I agree to refrain from all illegal drug use (to include but not limited to medicinal and recreational marijuana) if selected for Federal employment.
 B. No, I do not agree to refrain from all illegal drug use if selected for Federal employment.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected