Position Title
Trial Attorney (Civil Rights)
Agency
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
Announcement Number
DE-12772531-25-MG Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 30, 2025 to Tuesday, August 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please mark "YES" to ALL eligibility options below for which you wish to be considered for, we can ONLY verify eligibility options for which you claim and provide proper documentation listed in the required documents section of the announcement.
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
12
13
2. Have you served on a Schedule C appointment or as a political appointee anytime within the last 5 years?

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you receive, or have you ever applied for, retirement pay, pension, or other retired pay based on military, Federal civilian, or District of Columbia Government service? (If you are an annuitant, your salary or annuity may be reduced upon employment).




 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Have you accepted a buyout from a Federal agency within the past five (5) years?


 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. 0905 Basic Requirement - Carefully read the following descriptions and select the one that best describes your qualifications for the 0905 series.
 A. I have earned a professional law degree (J.D. or LL.B.) from a law school accredited by the American Bar Association AND I am an active member of the Bar.
 B. I have training equivalent to a professional law degree (J.D. or LL.B.) AND I am an active member of the Bar.
 C. I do not meet the requirements as described above.
2. GS-12 Minimum Qualifications: Carefully read the following descriptions of education and experience. Select the one that best describes your qualifications for this position.
 A. I have at least one year of related professional legal experience equivalent to the GS-11 level in the federal service.
 B. I have no professional legal experience but possess a second professional law degree (LL.M.).
 C. I do not have education or experience as described above.
3. GS-13 Minimum Qualifications: Carefully read the following descriptions of education and experience. Select the one that best describes your qualifications for this position.

 A. I have two years of professional legal experience with at least one-year equivalent to the GS-12 level in the federal service.
 B. I have one year of professional legal experience with at least one-year equivalent to the GS-12 level in the federal service and possess a second law degree (LL.M.) which can substitute for one year of experience.
 C. I have no legal experience but possess both a second (LL.M.) and third (J.S.D.) professional law degree which may be substituted for one year of experience each.
 D. I do not have education or experience as described above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected