Position Title
ENVRNMTL PROTCTN SPECLST
Agency
U.S. Mint
Announcement Number
25-MINT-12795115-P Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 8, 2025 to Monday, September 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other
3. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
4. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
6. Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.
Assessment 1
Specialized experience for the GS-12 level is one year of experience at the GS-11 level or equivalent that has equipped you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience includes:

- Preparing written reports giving recommendations for solving environmental issues or problems; AND
- Monitoring compliance or training on the preparation of environmental compliance reviews; AND
- Preparing environmental assessments or impact statements.
1. Do you have one year of experience at the GS-11 level, or equivalent, as described above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Please select from the following list the environmental laws and authorities with which you have had experience interpreting and applying. Select all that apply.
 A. National Environmental Policy Act
 B. Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act
 C. State Regulatory Agencies
 D. Nuclear Regulatory Commission
 E. Clean Water Act
 F. Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act
 G. Clean Air Act
 H. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act
 I. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
 J. None of the above
3. Select the statement that best describes your experience identifying environmental hazards in the design, construction, start up, operations, inspection, or maintenance of new, existing or modified construction, manufacturing, industrial or commercial work environments?
 A. I have been responsible for identifying environmental hazards and consulted by managers in developing policy and procedures in connection with the prevention of, oversight and response to environmental hazards in large scale construction, manufacturing, industrial or commercial work environments
 B. I have been responsible for identifying environmental hazards within a construction, industrial, or manufacturing environment
 C. I have been responsible for identifying environmental hazards under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures
 D. I have education and training on identifying environmental hazards, but have not applied my education on the job
 E. None of the above
4. Please choose the duties with which you have experience.
 A. Serving as principal advisor and liaison for all environmental program interpretation, implementation and compliance responsibilities with local, state, or federal statutes and policy directions
 B. Serving as a technical consultant for any litigation actions involving environmental issues against an agency
 C. Leading and or participating in negotiations with regulatory agencies in the event of non-compliance resulting in the assessment of fines and penalties
 D. Responsible for a technical environmental program to include development and implementation of applicable directives, supplements, and guidelines covering: spill prevention, air pollution, hazardous waste, and wastewater management
 E. Oversight of wastewater management operations
 F. Advising on planning and program requirements and resolving environmental issues encountered in the operations and maintenance of the facility
 G. Conducting environmental audits, investigations, and surveys to assess the overall effectiveness of goals and to ensure compliance with policies, procedures, and environmental standards
 H. Coordinating environmental analysis, program actions, and collects data collection regarding potential pollution sources with the appropriate office of responsibility
 I. None of the above
5. Select the response that best describes your experience in developing, implementing and auditing environmental management programs.
 A. I have been responsible for developing, managing and implementing an environmental program with the operation and maintenance of high voltage electrical facilities such as power plants, pumping plants, switch yards, and transmission lines
 B. I have been responsible for developing, managing and implementing a environmental program within a heavy construction/industrial/manufacturing environment
 C. I have been responsible for developing, managing and implementing a environmental program within a non-industrial environment
 D. I have education and training on environmental programs but have not applied my education on the job
 E. None of the above
6. Select all of the following activities with which you have experience.
 A. I have participated in the reduction and elimination of hazardous materials in the work place
 B. I have participated in the planning of off-site disposal of hazardous material
 C. I have participated in developing and implementing guidelines covering spill prevention, air pollution, hazardous waste, and wastewater management
 D. I have overseen the use and management of environmental media (hazardous materials, chemicals, pollutants, etc.)
 E. None of the above
7. Select all of the following activities with which you have experience.
 A. I have participated in the design and management of environmental compliance activities
 B. I have reconciled major compliance problems unresolvable by established methods
 C. I have developed, implemented, and recommended office-wide standard compliance review processes
 D. I have ensured compliance with responsibilities under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and related environmental laws
 E. None of the above
8. Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience with preparing written documents. Select all that apply.
 A. I have written or was instrumental in writing standard operating procedures (SOPs) for machine shop operations
 B. I have written or was instrumental in writing statements of work (SOW) and/or statements of objective (SOO) for vendor contracts
 C. I have prepared and presented issue papers or briefings to program personnel, or management officials at all levels within an organization on personnel management issues in a technical advisory capacity
 D. I have prepared written material to be distributed on the internet, intranet or by other electronic methods within an organization to describe policies or procedures (
 E. I have gathered and researched data and information to prepare responses to correspondence
 F. I have prepared and presented briefings to diverse audiences
 G. I have not performed any of the above tasks
9. Select all of the duties with which you have experience.
 A. Developing or monitoring Preventative Maintenance schedules
 B. Relaying and explaining instructions to other employees
 C. Evaluating subordinates technical training requirements
 D. Establishing workload priorities based on project importance and manning availability
 E. Determining work requirements and scheduling overtime to meet deadlines
 F. Establish work schedules and manpower rosters
 G. Time Management
 H. Determine equipment and material requirements for installation, maintenance and repairs
 I. Team Building
 J. Creating and managing shift / scheduling rosters
 K. Risk Management Analysis
 L. Implementation of a Project Plan
 M. None of the above
10. Select the response(s) that describe your oral communication experience.
 A. I served as the program lead on job related issues
 B. I Initiated and maintained contact with individuals outside the organization
 C. I persuaded others to take a particular course of action
 D. I persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes or alternative viewpoints
 E. I exchanged information and discussed issues and options available with program managers
 F. I participated in and represented the organization at briefings, meetings, or conferences
 G. I made informal presentations to co-workers on environmental protection issues
 H. I made formal presentations to co-workers using briefing slides, graphics, flip charts, or overheads
 I. I made formal presentations to management or management teams
 J. I designed and delivered formal courses of training or instruction using a variety of electronic media
 K. I protected and relayed sensitive or controversial information to only appropriate parties
 L. None of the above
11. Select the responses that describe your experience in performing analytical and evaluative activities, studies or projects.
 A. Applied fact-finding and investigative techniques in resolving environmental protection issues
 B. Evaluated comments received on proposed regulations or policies to determine whether changes are feasible, enforceable and acceptable in view of environmental protection program goals
 C. Uses qualitative and quantitative methods, and other statistical approaches and techniques to assess environmental protection program effectiveness
 D. Assists in conducting interviews to obtain information on organizational missions, functions, and procedures
 E. Works with upper management to define, analyze, and resolve problems with environmental protection regulations and policy
 F. None of the above
12. From the descriptions below, please select the response which best describes the technical documents you have prepared.
 A. I have written technical reports or peer-reviewed manuscripts that provide a comprehensive description of a specific environmental, and associated prevention strategies, with citations of reference literature and standards
 B. I have written a comprehensive environmental training program for a company or worksite
 C. I have assisted in writing an environmental training program for a company or worksite
 D. I developed environmental brochures/fliers
 E. I wrote environmental reminders for distribution to a work unit
 F. I do not have any experience in this area
13. Select the software application(s) you are proficient in (proficient means you understand and use a major part of the systems functionality/capabilities).
 A. Word processing software
 B. Data management/spreadsheet software
 C. Electronic mail and messaging
 D. Other Application Systems (i.e. time and attendance, accounting, scientific, security, supply, etc.)
 E. Internet search engines
 F. Presentation software
 G. Microsoft Teams
 H. None of the above
14. Select the response that best describes your experience interpreting instructions and specifications in a production environment. (
 A. I interpret instructions and specifications in a production environment. I give technical direction to others in the interpretation and specification of instructions on a routine basis. I use independent judgment in modifying instructions as needed to improve or streamline operations
 B. I interpret instructions and specifications in a production environment and perform routine and diverse tasks without additional guidance. I perform assigned tasks and operations independently or with minimal supervision
 C. I interpret instructions and specifications in a production environment to perform routine jobs under close supervision, and I may require assistance for more difficult operations
 D. I have not had experience, education or training in interpreting instructions and specifications
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected