Position Title
Registered Respiratory Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBST-12757378-25-SC Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 2, 2025 to Thursday, July 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume, supporting documents, and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you meet the eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and other application documents. You will not be contacted for missing information or documents. All information and documents are due at the time of application.

This section evaluates if you meet the basic requirements for the position of GS-0601 Registered Respiratory Therapist (RRT).
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. English Language: Candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 7403(f).

Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Education. Individuals must have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor.

You must provide a copy of your transcripts showing the degree earned and completion/confer date.

Please answer by selecting the most appropriate response.
 A. Yes, I completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor. (NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcript(s) showing award of certificate or completion of program to receive credit.)
 B. I qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation).
 C. No, I do not possess the required education to qualify for this position.
2a. Education Information: Provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your education.
 
Name of Academic Institution
City and State
Month and Year conferred
 
If you have been employed by VHA in this occupation and do not meet the education requirement and meet the Grandfathering Provision, simply note "Grandfathering Provision".
 
3. Licensure. Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT.

Your licensure must be provided as a supporting document if you are licensed.

Please answer by selecting the most appropriate response.
 A. Yes, I possess a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT. (NOTE: Must provide a copy of your full, current and unrestricted license).
 B. I qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation).
 C. No, I do not possess the required licensure to qualify for this position.
3a. Licensure Information: Provide the following information regarding your licensure.
 
Name on License
Issuing state or territory
Complete license number
Expiration date
 
If you have been employed by VHA in this occupation and do not currently hold a licensure or certification by a state to practice as an RRT and meet the Grandfathering Provision, simply note "Grandfathering Provision".
 
4. Credential. Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a valid, current, unrestricted credential of Registered Respiratory Therapist (RRT) through National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC). You must submit a copy of your valid, current, unrestricted credential of RRT through NBRC to receive credit.

RT positions will be designated only to individuals who are in the process of obtaining credentials to become an RRT. These individuals will only be hired on a temporary appointment as provided below.
(a) VHA may waive the RRT credential requirement for persons who are otherwise qualified and pending completion of prerequisites for RRT credential. Individuals who have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor, acquired the CRT credential, are fully licensed by their state and are working toward completion of their RRT credential may be given a temporary appointment as an RT. The temporary appointment is made under the authority of 38 U.S.C. ? 7401(a)(1)(B) for a period not to exceed one year from date of employment. Candidates must hold an active, current, full and unrestricted RRT credential and be licensed to hold a position at or above the GS-07level.
(b) RTs may only be temporarily appointed at the GS-05 level and may not be promoted/converted to a higher-level position as an RRT until the RRT credential is received.
(c) RTs must provide care only under the close supervision of an RRT.
(d)Temporary RT appointments may not be extended beyond one year or converted to a new temporary appointment.

Your certification must be provided as a supporting document if you are credentialed.

Please answer by selecting the most appropriate response.
 A. Yes, I possess a valid, current, unrestricted credential of CRT or RRT through NBRC (NOTE: Must provide a copy of your valid, current, unrestricted credential of RRT to receive credit).
 B. I am currently not credentialed but meet the exception rule. I have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor, acquired the CRT credential, am fully licensed by their state and working toward completion of their RRT credential.
 C. I qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation).
 D. No, I do not possess the required credential to qualify for this position.
4a. Credential Information: Provide the following information regarding your licensure.
 
Name on Credential
Complete credential number
Expiration date
 
If you have been employed by VHA in this occupation and do not currently hold a credential by of Registered Respiratory Therapist (RRT) through National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC) and meet the Grandfathering Provision, simply note "Grandfathering Provision".
 
GRADE REQUIREMENTS: This section evaluates if you meet the grade specific requirements for the position and if you can demonstrate the knowledge, skills and abilities to perform the duties of this position. For each question below, please select the appropriate response applicable to you.
5. GS-05 Requirements:

Experience: None beyond the basic requirements.

Education, Licensure: This level assignment is designated as temporary under paragraph 4d(1) above for individuals who have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor, acquired the CRT credential, licensed by their state and are working towards obtaining RRT credential.

Please answer by selecting the most appropriate response.

 A. Yes, I meet the basic requirements required for this position have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor, acquired the CRT credential, licensed by their state and are working towards obtaining RRT credential.
 B. No, I do not meet the basic requirements required for this position.
6. GS-07 Requirements:

Experience, Education, Licensure and Registration: In addition to the basic requirements, candidates must possess their RRT credential.

Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
(a) Ability to perform therapeutic modalities related to respiratory care.
(b) Skill in analyzing physiological specimens obtained to include arterial blood gases, pulse oximetry, End tidal Co2 (ETCo2) monitoring, basic spirometry and other basic diagnostic procedures.
(c) Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals for respiratory care to help provide favorable patient outcomes.
(d) Skill in assessing oxygenation and ventilation.
(e) Ability to perform basic airway management to include artificial airways and mechanical ventilation.

Please answer by selecting the most appropriate response.

 A. Yes, I possess my RRT credential and my resume demonstrates the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities required at the GS-07 level.
 B. No, I do not possess my RRT credential and my resume does not demonstrate the required Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities required at the GS-07 level.
7. GS-09 Requirements:

Experience, Education, Licensure and Registration: Candidates must have:

One year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level; OR
A Master of Science degree in respiratory care AND a license AND an RRT credential.

Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
(a) Skill in performing therapeutic modalities related to respiratory care.
(b) Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals to help provide favorable patient outcomes.
(c) Skill in assessing oxygenation and ventilation
(d) Ability to perform airway management to include artificial airways and mechanical ventilation.

Please answer by selecting the most appropriate response.


 A. Yes, I possess one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-07 AND my resume clearly demonstrates the required Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities required at the GS-09 level.
 B. Yes, I possess A Master of Science degree in respiratory care AND a license AND an RRT credential. My resume clearly demonstrates the required Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities required at the GS-09 level.
 C. No, I do not possess the required experience, and my resume does not demonstrate the required Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities required at the GS-09 level.
8. GS-11 Requirements:

Experience, Education, Licensure and Registration: Candidates must have:

One year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level, hold an active license and RRT credential. 

Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
(a) Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals for complex respiratory care to develop care plans to provide favorable patient outcomes.
(b) Skill in evaluating the efficacies of therapeutic modalities.
(c) Skill in performing advanced airway and ventilation management.

Please answer by selecting the most appropriate response.
 A. Yes, I possess one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-09 AND Hold an active license and RRT credential. My resume clearly demonstrates the required Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities required at the GS-11 level.
 B. No, I do not possess the required experience, and my resume does not demonstrate the required Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities required at the GS-11 level.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected