Position Title
Motor Vehicle Operator
Agency
U.S. Army Reserve Command
Announcement Number
SDDE2512809277DHAS Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 1, 2025 to Wednesday, September 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position requires membership in the US Army Reserve (USAR). If you are not willing or are ineligible to join the USAR, please do not apply to this announcement. If selected, you MUST be or become a member of the Selected USAR. Generally, retired military service members are not eligible for Selected USAR membership. Are you currently a member of the Selected USAR and are willing to maintain membership or are you willing to obtain and maintain membership in the Selected USAR?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Motor Vehicle Operator position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Motor Vehicle Operator duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform some tasks including operation of gasoline powered equipment and warehousing tasks. I can operate equipment to include generators and wheeled vehicles, perform preventive vehicle maintenance to include checking fluid levels and tire pressure, and performing basic warehousing tasks. I work under supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who reviews my work for completion.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of operation and maintenance of gasoline and diesel powered equipment and warehousing tasks. I am skilled in operating equipment to include generators, wheeled vehicles, and semi trailers, performing preventive vehicle maintenance to include taking oil samples, installing wiper blades, and checking tire and air pressure, performing a variety of warehousing tasks . I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common operation of gasoline powered equipment and warehousing tasks. I can operate wheeled vehicles to include forklifts, perform preventive maintenance to include checking fluid levels and tire pressure, and perform basic warehousing tasks. I work under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple operation of gasoline powered equipment and warehousing tasks or I have received training on operation of wheeled vehicles, performance of preventive maintenance, and performance of basic warehousing tasks.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙