Position Title
Emergency Management Specialist (Watch Officer)
Agency
Office of the Secretary of the Interior
Announcement Number
OS-6052-25-AA-100(DEU) Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, June 10, 2025 to Wednesday, July 9, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.

Do you wish to be considered under CTAP?
To be eligible for Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP), a person must:

Be a current or former permanent competitive status DOI federal employee displaced from a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy with a current (or last) performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To claim eligibility under CTAP, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

Copies of the appropriate documentation which includes:

Reduction in force (RIF) separation notice;
SF-50 reflecting your RIF separation, or a notice of proposed removal for declining a directed reassignment or transfer of function to another commuting area;
You MUST also submit documentation to reflect your current (or last) performance rating of record.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

Do you wish to be considered under ICTAP?
To be eligible for Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP), a person must:

Be a current or former permanent competitive status federal employee displaced from a position in a non-DOI federal agency (e.g., IRS, VA, Department of Labor, etc.) in the same local commuting area of the vacancy with a current (or last) performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To claim eligibility under ICTAP, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

Copies of the appropriate documentation which includes:

Reduction in force (RIF) separation notice;
SF-50 reflecting your RIF separation, or a notice of proposed removal for declining a directed reassignment or transfer of function to another commuting area;
You MUST also submit documentation to reflect your current (or last) performance rating of record.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Lakewood, CO
 B. Washington, DC
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
11
12
3. It is your responsibility to ensure that your resume and correct documents are uploaded and received. Please, verify during the application process on the "application review page" that you have uploaded the appropriate documentation as stated in the required documents section of the vacancy announcement. No documentation will be accepted after the closing date of the announcement. I understand that it is my responsibility that I must submit a resume and all required supporting documentation prior to the closing date of the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. What attracted you to this position?
 A. Service as a Civil Servant
 B. Government Benefits
 C. Salary
 D. Work Schedule Flexibility
 E. Downturn in Non-Federal Job Market
 F. Job Stability
 G. Office Location
 H. Other
5. If you have ever held a Federal position please indicate your pay plan, highest grade held, and dates held below (e.g. GS-13; 08/15/11 - 08/15/12). If applying based on noncompetitive eligibility and if you do not have prior Federal service, please type "N/A" in the text box below. (limit 100 characters)
6. Applicants who apply under this job opportunity announcement have the option to have their application, associated documents and applicable personal information shared with other Bureaus/Offices within the Department of the Interior (DOI) that have vacancies within the same occupational series, grade, promotion potential and in the same geographic location(s), including within the same metro/commuting area. Applying to this announcement does not replace the need to apply to other job opportunity announcements for which you wish to receive consideration. If you select "yes", your information could potentially be shared with other bureaus if there is a need to fill another position. If you select "no", your information will NOT be shared with other bureaus. Do you agree to have your information shared with other bureaus?
 A. Yes, I would like my information shared with other bureaus.
 B. No, I would not like my information shared with other bureaus.
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this vacancy. Please select the response that best reflects how you meet the qualification requirements for this position.
1. Select the statement that most closely matches your experience as defined in the vacancy announcement for the GS-11 grade level.

 A. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 level as described in the vacancy announcement, and it is clearly written in my resume.
 B. I possess 3 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. (Degree must reflect the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work.)
 C. I possess a combination of graduate level education beyond the first two years of progressive graduate study and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position.
 D. None of the above accurately reflects my qualifications.
2. Select the statement that most closely matches your experience as defined in the vacancy announcement for the GS-12 grade level.

 A. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 level as described in the vacancy announcement, and it is clearly written in my resume.
 B. I possess less than one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 level.
 C. None of the above accurately reflects my qualifications.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level analyzing and/or evaluating critical, time-sensitive information regarding emergency management incidents?

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level grade level applying emergency management procedures while working in an organization?

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level grade level utilizing accepted emergency management systems such as: NIMS (National Incident Management System), ICS (Incident Command System), NRF (National Response Framework)?

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level analyzing and/or evaluating critical, time-sensitive information regarding emergency management incidents?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level grade level applying emergency management procedures while working in an organization?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level grade level utilizing accepted emergency management systems such as: NIMS (National Incident Management System), ICS (Incident Command System), NRF (National Response Framework)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level grade level developing situational awareness products and disseminating that information to emergency management customers or stakeholders?
 A. Yes
 B. No
From the descriptions below, select the response(s) that best describes how your background meets the requirements for the position. Read all responses before making your selection. You are required to answer every question in the questionnaire. YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWERS YOU CLAIM IN THE QUESTIONNAIRE IN ORDER TO BE FOUND QUALIFIED AND CONSIDERED FOR THE POSITION.
10. The National Response Framework (NRF) is:

 A. Written exclusively for professional emergency management practitioners.
 B. A comprehensive guide to prevention, protection, response, recovery, and mitigation.
 C. Triggered following a declaration by the Secretary of Homeland Security.
 D. Always in effect, and elements can be implemented as needed on a flexible, scalable basis to improve response.
 E. None of the above
11. The three National Incident Management System (NIMS) guiding principles are:

 A. Flexibility, standardization, unity of effort.
 B. Unity of effort, preparedness, resource management.
 C. Planning, response, recovery.
 D. Resources, organization, standardization.
 E. None of the above
12. The NRF describes an incident as: any occurrence, natural or manmade, that necessitates a response to protect life or property and includes planned events, as well as emergencies or disasters of all kinds and sizes.

 A. True
 B. False
13. EOC's are one of several system elements included within the Multiagency Coordination System (MACS).

 A. True
 B. False
14. Which of the following is an Emergency Operations Centers (EOC) function?

 A. Coordinating plans and determining resource needs.
 B. Collecting, analyzing, and sharing information.
 C. Providing coordination and policy direction.
 D. All of the above
 E. None of the above
15. A common operating picture can be described as:

 A. A tool for ensuring situational awareness.
 B. A concept for providing senior leadership with pertinent information regarding an incident.
 C. A continuously updated overview of an incident compiled throughout an incident’s life cycle from data shared between integrated systems for communication, information management, and intelligence and information sharing systems.
 D. All of the above
16. Operation Centers may utilize Geographic Information System products combined with normal written notification products in order to effectively fuse incident-related information with mapping products or other data visualization tools.

 A. True
 B. False
17. When an EOC is activated, a way to efficiently share information among team members is using:

 A. Incident Action Plan
 B. Common Operating Picture
 C. Incident Briefing
 D. Situational Awareness
18. This item identifies the competencies, behaviors and tasks that personnel should demonstrate to become qualified for a defined incident management and support position.

 A. Position Description
 B. Red Card
 C. Standard Operating Procedure
 D. Position Task Book
19. FEMA has defined situational awareness as:

 A. Providing an audience with all pertinent information regarding an incident.
 B. The ability to identify, process, and comprehend the critical information about an incident.
 C. Facilitating collaborative planning.
 D. A shared common operating picture. COMPTENCY ID: NONE
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
20. I understand that this position is subject to recall around the clock for emergency management operations or situations dealing with national security emergencies and I may be required to remain at work during dismissal or closure situations.
 A. Yes
 B. No
21. This position requires the incumbent to obtain and/or maintain a valid state driver's license. Do you possess
or are able to obtain and maintain a valid state drivers license?
 A. Yes, I possess a valid state driver's license.
 B. I do not possess a valid state driver's license, however I am able to obtain one.
 C. I do not posses, nor am I able to obtain, a valid state driver's license.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected