Position Title
Contract Specialist
Agency
Office of the Secretary of Health and Human Services
Announcement Number
HHS-ASA-DH-25-12777636 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 4, 2025 to Friday, August 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Health and Human Services? If yes, confirm:
• You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• Your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy AND
• Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center page (https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/federal-employees/ctap/).
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center. (https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/federal-employees/ictap/)
 A. Yes
 B. No
QUALIFICATIONS
1. Select the statement below as it pertains to meeting the basic requirements for this position. Transcripts must be provided.
I have successfully completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with a major in any field.
I have successfully completed at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management.
I do not meet the education requirements as described above; however, I have continuously held a GS or equivalent 1102 position in the Federal Government since January 1, 2000.
I do not meet any of the requirements described above.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be fully supported by your resume and supporting documents.
1. Select one statement below that best describes how you meet the basic requirement for GS-1102-09 Contract Specialist position.
 A. I possess a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with a major in any field. (You must submit copy of educational transcripts)
 B. I possess at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, laws, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. (You must submit copy of educational transcripts)
 C. I currently occupy a GS-1102 position and have continuously occupied that position since January 1, 2000. (You must submit your SF-50.) This also applies to positions at the same grade in the same agency or other agencies if the specialized experience requirements are met.(You must submit copy of SF-50 to support this claim).
 D. I do not possess the education and/or experience reflected in any of the statements listed above; therefore, I do not qualify for this position.
2. From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your experience and/or education and meets the minimum qualification requirements for Contract Specialist, GS-1102-09.
 A. I have at least one full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service that include the following: Assisting in planning and/or carrying out pre-award/post-award actions required in the acquisition of professional and/or technical services; Assisting in the development of acquisition activities; and Preparing a variety of written materials including correspondence and/or contract documents.
 B. I have a Master’s or equivalent graduate degree or completed at least two full academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a LL.B. or J.D. if related, or equivalent graduate degree in one or a combination of the following fields is required: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. (Must submit transcripts)
 C. I possess a combination of specialized experience as described in A and education as described in B that, when combined, equal 100% of the total requirement. (You must submit transcripts.)
 D. My experience and/or education are not reflected in the statement(s) listed above, therefore I am not qualified for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected