Position Title
Utility Systems Repairer-Operator
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
SE-1628-DRTO-25-12801182-IM Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 29, 2025 to Monday, October 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current career/career-conditional National Park Service Federal employee and meet the following Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:

Current National Park Service Federal employee with a career or career- conditional appointment in the competitive service that hold, or have held a career or career-conditional position at a lower grade level as the position being announced. 

To verify your eligibility as a current National Park Service Federal employee, you must provide a copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status showing that you are a current National Park Service employee. All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who:
was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; and,
served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; and,
performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; and,
if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing.
 
To verify your eligibility, you must provide documentation for the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA) eligibility, which includes ALL Appointment AND Termination SF-50s for EACH appointment as well as ALL performance evaluations, for each qualifying period of temporary employment claimed.
For more information, review Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA).
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current career/career-conditional National Park Service Federal employee and meet the following Non-competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:
 
Current National Park Service Federal employee with a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service that hold, or have previously held a career or career-conditional position at the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being announced.
 
To verify your eligibility as a National Park Service Federal employee, you must provide a copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status showing that you are a current National Park Service employee. All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
My performance is at an acceptable level and I am not serving under a formal Performance Improvement Plan (PIP).
 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable


A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


Assessment 1
Ability to do the work of the position without more than normal supervision. (Screen Out)


1.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your background meets the basic experience requirements for a Utility Systems Repairer-Operator, WG-4742-10 position. Read all of the responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered ineligible and will not receive consideration for this position.

 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Utility Systems Repairer Operator duties. I have complex knowledge and hands on ability in the operations and maintenance of sewage treatment plants utilizing complete primary, secondary and tertiary treatment processes and equipment following all State and Federal regulations. I have the complex and hands on ability to operate, maintain, diagnose and repair reverse osmosis desalinators, saltwater delivery systems, and water storage facilities. I have the complex knowledge and hands on ability of operations and can successfully perform preventative, recurring/routine, and corrective maintenance on water treatment and distribution systems and wastewater collection systems following all State and Federal regulations. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of Utility Systems Repairer Operator duties. I am highly skilled with hands on ability in the operations and maintenance of sewage treatment plants utilizing complete primary, secondary and tertiary treatment processes and equipment following all State and Federal regulations. I am highly skilled to operate, maintain, diagnose and repair reverse osmosis desalinators, saltwater delivery systems, and water storage facilities. I am highly skilled with hands on ability of the operations and can perform preventative, recurring/routine, and corrective maintenance of water treatment and distribution systems and wastewater collections systems following all State and Federal regulations. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common Utility Systems Repairer Operator duties. I am skilled in the operation and maintenance of sewage treatment plants utilizing complete primary, secondary and tertiary treatment processes and equipment. I have skill to operate, maintain, diagnose and repair reverse osmosis desalinators, saltwater delivery systems, and water storage facilities. I am skilled with hands on ability of the operations and can perform preventative, recurring/routine, and corrective maintenance of water treatment and distribution systems, and wastewater collections systems following all State and Federal regulations. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform minimal Utility Systems Repairer Operator duties. I have some knowledge in the operation and maintenance of sewage treatment plants utilizing complete primary, secondary and tertiary treatment processes and equipment. I have some hands-on ability to operate, maintain, diagnose and repair reverse osmosis desalinators, saltwater delivery systems, and water storage facilities. I have some hands-on ability of the operations and can perform basic preventative, recurring/routine, and corrective maintenance of water treatment and distribution systems, and wastewater collection systems. I am closely supervised by a Certified Operator who observes tasks in progress to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have no experience of operating wastewater systems, no experience operating reverse osmosis desalinators, saltwater delivery systems, water storage facilities, and no experience in the operations and maintenance of water treatment and distribution systems and wastewater collection systems.


Wastewater Treatment Operators Certification (Selective Factor)


2.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT CERTIFICATION - From the description below, select the letter corresponding to the statement that most clearly and accurately describes your possession of a current Florida Class C Wastewater Treatment Certification or comparable state issued wastewater treatment certification. For this position, you must possess a State of Florida Class C Wastewater Treatment Certification, or comparable state issued wastewater treatment certification. Please select the statement below which best indicates your possession of a current Florida Class C Wastewater Treatment Certification or comparable state issued wastewater treatment certification. YOU MUST PROVIDE A COPY OF YOUR CERTIFICATION TO SUPPORT YOUR RESPONSE. THOSE NOT PROVIDING A COPY OF THEIR CERTIFICATION WITH THEIR APPLICATION PACKAGE WILL RECEIVE NO FURTHER CONSIDERATION FOR THIS POSITION.

 I possess a current State of Florida Class C Wastewater Treatment Certification and will upload a copy of my certification with my application package.
 I possess a comparable state issued wastewater treatment certification and have the ability to obtain a Florida Class C Wastewater Treatment Certification within 30 of Entrance on Duty if selected for this position. I will upload a copy of my certification with my application package.
 I do not possess a current State of Florida Class C Wastewater Treatment Certification, nor a comparable state issued wastewater treatment certification, and therefore am ineligible to receive further consideration for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙