Position Title
HEAVY MOBILE EQUIPMENT MECHANIC
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12825166-AF-26-008 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, October 28, 2025 to Monday, December 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1, 2 and 3 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA AIR NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-1172.


2.
Are you an enlisted member in the grades of E1 - E6?
 Yes. I am an enlisted member in the grades of E1 - E6.
 No. I am not an enlisted member in the grades of E1 - E6.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Air National Guard.


3.
APPLICANTS MUST BE ABLE TO OBTAIN AN MINIMUM OF A SECRET CLEARANCE TO BE CONSIDERED ELIGIBLE. Do you currently possess a Secret or higher security clearance, OR ABLE TO OBTAIN a Secret Clearance?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions truthfully and to the best of your ability


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess experience or training that has provided the skill to make repairs or the ability to assist with repairs that can be accomplished by removing, adjusting, or replacing defective or worn parts.
 Yes
 No


2.
WG-10: Do you possess at least 18 months experience or training diagnosing, repairing, overhauling, and modifying more complex vehicles, equipment, and more complicated systems; Experience which has provided a thorough knowledge of diagnostic equipment; Experience applying independent judgment in determining methods and techniques required to solve unusually complex maintenance and repair problems; Experience in testing, inspecting, and evaluating the work performed on heavy mobile vehicles, equipment and systems?
 Yes
 No


3.
Describe a time when you were presented with a particularly challenging mechanical or electrical failure in a heavy mobile equipment or special purpose vehicle. Detail the steps you took to systematically diagnose the problem, the specialized tools and equipment you utilized, and the ultimate repair solution. What was the outcome, and what did you learn from this experience?


4.
There are times when technical guidelines are absent or inadequate. Describe a situation where you had to develop or improvise a repair method, alter a part, or modify equipment due to a lack of specific instructions. What were the challenges you faced, and how did you ensure the modification met safety and operational standards?


5.
Describe a situation where you were tasked with repairing significant corrosion damage on a military vehicle or piece of equipment. Detail the methods you employed for body repair, corrosion control, and refinishing. What specific techniques did you use, and what were the challenges in restoring the equipment to a serviceable condition?


6.
Describe a time when you acted as an OJT (On-the-Job Training) instructor for vehicle maintenance. What specific methods and procedures did you teach, and how did you evaluate the effectiveness of your instruction? What steps did you take to ensure the trainee understood the material and could perform the tasks safely and correctly?


7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙