Position Title
BUDGET ANALYST
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OF-IMP-12771217-RDB Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 1, 2025 to Thursday, August 7, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of GS-14?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Federal employees who competed for and currently hold, or have previously held, a permanent position of GS-14 (or equivalent) or higher, may be referred for selection without competition under our agency promotion procedures. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-11 position with promotion potential to the GS-13.  The progression is GS-11, GS-12, and GS-13.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-13.
Your current position is a GS-13. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-14 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-13.
Your current position is a GS-13. You previously held a GS-14 position on a permanent basis.  GS-14 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Indianapolis, IN
2. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-14 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
4. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
5. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
6. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
7. This vacancy has a local commuting area requirement, as defined below:
The area surrounding the duty station by which people reasonably travel back and forth from home to work; Or
The employee's permanent duty station is located within the reasonable travel area surrounding the duty station of this vacancy; Or if applicable
For employees who are detailed or temporarily promoted (for less than 1 year) to another duty location, the permanent duty location is considered to be the duty location of record for commuting area purposes.
For employees who are detailed or temporarily promoted (for more than 1 year) to another duty location, the detailed or temporary duty location is considered to be the duty location of record for commuting area purposes.
Do you meet the local commuting area requirement?
 A. A. Yes, I meet the local commuting area requirement as defined above.
 B. B. No, I do not meet the local commuting area requirement as defined above.
8. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-14 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes budget analysis and planning, designing, coordinating, implementing, and maintaining agency's budget; Performing the full range of program planning functions such as providing input for budget execution and baseline reviews; Preparing financial plans and analyzing budget patterns, expenditures and forecasting; understanding of activities appropriations, user fees, and reimbursable services; Using knowledge of accounting principles, theories, and practices and the ability to apply knowledge to a variety of assignments, along with experience reporting in the areas of cost management and reimbursable services; Providing expert advice and technical assistance to CBP officials regarding the costs of ongoing programs, as well as the costs to revise or establish new programs.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
9. In addition to the application and application questionnaire, this position requires a USA Hire online assessment, which measures critical general competencies required to perform the job. If you are required to take the USA Hire assessment, you will be emailed a unique URL to access the USA Hire system. The USA Hire online assessment must be completed within 48 hours, following the close of this announcement. You will have the opportunity to request a testing accommodation for the assessment should you have a disability covered under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). See the How to Apply and Next Steps within the Job Opportunity Announcement for additional details.

Do you acknowledge that you may be required to take an additional online USA Hire assessment, via an email link sent to you after completion of this application, and that failure to complete any portion of the assessment will remove your application from consideration?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that by not taking the additional required USA Hire assessment that I will be removed from further consideration.
Assessment 1
1. In which of the following capacities have you served where you performed work in direct support of one or more components of an operating budget?

 A. State or local government financial management occupations in accounting, finance, or budget
 B. Federal government financial management occupations in accounting, finance or budget
 C. Program management or administration in the federal government
 D. Occupations where governmental programs are analyzed for appropriation
 E. Other financial management occupations
 F. I have completed education and/or training that has prepared me to perform budget analyst work, but I have not been employed in a financial management occupation
 G. None of the above
2. I have experience performing work in the following budget processes

 A. Development, formulation, and analysis
 B. Presentation, justification, and defense
 C. Execution, control, monitoring, and reporting
 D. None of the above
3. Which of the following best describes your experience formulating budgets?

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
4. I have the following experience presenting, justifying and defending proposed budgets:

 A. Developing program data and information, as well as formulating presentation and justification strategies for use in defending proposed budgets at a field office, regional office, installation or similar level.
 B. Sourcing critical program data, schedules and details in support of budget presentations.
 C. Participating in the formation of broad program justification strategies for use in defending proposed budgets from the policy or headquarter level of my employer.
 D. None of the above
5. I have reviewed budget forecasts, estimates and requests to assure that they meet requirements and standards concerning the following:

 A. Proper format
 B. Technical accuracy
 C. Mathematical accuracy
 D. Adequacy of supporting narrative justification
 E. Conformance with budgetary policy, guidelines, and legal requirements
 F. Consistency with financial objectives
 G. Consistency with program objectives
 H. None of the above
6. I have devised appropriate solutions to budgetary issues under the following circumstances:

 A. Strict time constraints/deadlines
 B. Conflicting or ambiguous policy guidance
 C. Conflicts between program needs and regulatory, policy and/or legal requirements
 D. Competing programs or program objectives
 E. None of the above
7. I have developed and written guidelines and special instructions concerning requirements and procedures for the submission of financial plans, reports, and budget data.

 A. YES
 B. NO
8. I have compared and contrasted current and historical budget and projected program needs in order to:

 A. Determine funding requirements at various program levels
 B. Anticipate funding shortfalls or excesses in current programs
 C. Identify and document new trends in spending
 D. Recommend reprogramming and/or reallocation of funds between programs and budget object classes
 E. None of the above
9. I have provided advice and guidance to program managers, administrators, and/or other management officials on the following types of matters:

 A. The procedures, forms, and documentation required to support budget requests/proposals, execution and monitoring
 B. The format for submission of annual estimates of funding needs
 C. The amounts and types of funds available
 D. The purposes for which money in the budget may be used within legal or other applicable limits
 E. Trends in the rates of obligation and/or expenditure of funds
 F. The effects of budgetary changes on related activities (e.g., purchase of office supplies and equipment, maintenance of buildings and grounds, hiring of personnel, and payment for travel expenses, external funding agencies)
 G. None of the above
10. From the following list of communication skills, please identify those that reflect your strongest capabilities. Please restrict your answers to those skills which you have personally applied at work and/or in academic or volunteer settings.

 A. Facilitate the resolution of competing or conflicting interests among co-workers whose cooperation is essential to the success of a project
 B. Negotiate with or influence others to gain their commitment to pursue new initiatives or technologies
 C. Interact and perform effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments
 D. Work with representatives of outside groups that hold opposing views or positions to resolve issues
 E. Build and sustain working relationships with outside persons in order to obtain information or commitments to taking action
 F. Interact with representatives of outside groups in order to accomplish your employer?s goals
 G. Effectively persuade cooperators to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve their operations
 H. None of the above
11. I have prepared and presented a formulated budget package to the following:

 A. Supervisor
 B. Upper Management
 C. Administrator
 D. Office of Budget and Program Analysis (OBPA)
 E. Office of Management and Budget (OMB)
 F. Other
 G. None of the above
12. Which of the following best describes your experience developing recommendations for improved efficiency, effectiveness, productivity, and/or economy?

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
13. Please indicate which of the following you have experience performing.

 A. Presenting technical financial information to small groups
 B. Presenting technical financial information to large groups (twenty or more)
 C. Making formal budget presentations to senior management
 D. Presenting, as a formal representative of your organization, at conferences or workshops
 E. None of the above
14. I have experience preparing and editing narrative justifications and projected funding needs and assuring the data in requests is formally and accurately documented in a wide variety of unrelated forms, schedules, and reports.

 A. YES
 B. NO
15. I have been responsible for communicating to senior management on the following budget activities:

 A. Reviewing justifications submitted for equipment for technical adequacy and cost
 B. Performing all aspects of budgetary functions and duties associated with the PPBA (Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Accountability) process from a program perspective.
 C. Makes the necessary adjustment to the budget as a result of higher-level decisions concerning funding.
 D. Formulates and/or monitors the execution of long-range budget forecasts (3 to 5 years or longer), details budget forecasts and plans to fund the implementation of substantive programs and projects.
 E. None of the above
16. I have been responsible for providing Budget related consultation services for the following activities:

 A. Assessing the impact of changes in programs and regulations on, travel, and related expenses on the organizations budget.
 B. Conducting research, identifying and analyzing trends such as cost-benefit analysis, depreciation and proration of revenues and costs, and recommending adjustments in program spending that requires the rescheduling of program workloads.
 C. Conducting cost analysis, benefits, and identifying trends in obligations and expenditures of funds.
 D. Conducting the user fee financial planning process from out-year formulation, resource justification, financial planning, and resource execution in coordination with internal and external stakeholders.
 E. Developing specific objectives and devising new methods and techniques to identify trends and patterns, acquiring information, analyzing data, developing solutions, and presenting findings for which there are no precedents.
 F. Projecting and analyzing the potential effects of budgetary actions on program viability and attainment of program objectives within an organization.
 G. None of the above
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected