Position Title
Dental Hyienist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12811400-26-JLC Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 3, 2025 to Wednesday, September 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


3.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Dental Hygienist position with the Tallahassee OutPatient Clinic, Tallahassee, FL. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you qualify for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire. Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the qualification requirements. Please provide an answer to each question.

Full performance level for this position is GS-09.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS

The following section is used to determine if you meet the basic requirements for this vacancy. Please choose the most appropriate answer in response to the following questions.


1.
Education. Applicants must possess an Associate degree or higher from an accredited dental hygiene program. The degree must have been obtained from an institution whose accreditation was in place for the year in which the course of study was completed. Approved programs are:
Dental hygiene programs accredited by the American Dental Association's Commission on Dental Accreditation (CODA).
Education completed outside of the United States must be considered at least equivalent to that gained in CODA accredited United States programs and would enable the candidate to sit for the National Board Dental Hygiene Examination, which is administered by the Joint Commission on National Dental Examinations.

Do you meet the education requirement?
 Yes, I have completed a dental hygiene programs accredited by the American Dental Association Commission on Dental Accreditation (CODA).
 Yes, I have completed education outside of the U.S. that is considered at least equivalent to a CODA accredited U.S. program, which would enable me to sit for the National Board Dental Hygiene Examination administered by the Joint Commission on National Dental Examinations.
 No, I do not meet the education requirement.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Licensure. Applicants must be currently licensed to practice as a dental hygienist with a full, current and unrestricted license in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States, or the District of Columbia.

Do you possess a full, current, and unrestricted license?
 Yes
 No


3.
Certification. P.L. 97-35, Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act Of 1981, requires persons who administer radiologic procedures meet the credentialing standards in 42 C.F.R. Part 75, Standards for the Accreditation of Educational Programs for and the Credentialing of Radiologic Personnel. To meet this requirement, they must have successfully completed an educational program that meets or exceeds the standards described in that regulation and is accredited by an organization recognized by the Department of Education and be certified as radiographers in their field. Accredited dental hygiene programs contain curriculum addressing radiologic procedures meets the requirement for certification as dental radiographers.


Do you possess above described required dental radiographer certification?
 Yes
 No


Loss of Credential. Management officials will remove dental hygienists from their positions who fail to maintain the required licensure/certification, which may also result in termination of employment.


GRADE REQUIREMENT for Dental Hygienist, GS-09

The following is used to determine the grade requirements for this position. Please answer the following questions by selecting the most appropriate response in regard to your knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs). Your responses are subject to verification and must be demonstrated in your resume. Be as detailed as possible in your resume and ensure you demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and knowledge, skills and abilities required for the position. No assumptions will be made.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Experience. At least one year of experience at the next lower grade level that demonstrates the clinical competencies described at that level. KSAs at the GS-08 grade level are:
Knowledge of state-of-the-art preventive dentistry measures for patient instruction and training.
Knowledge of anatomy and physiology in order to interpret the examination request accurately; to understand the functioning and interrelationship of the various anatomical structures appearing on the radiographic image and the various stages of the examination to judge the acceptability of the radiograph for diagnostic use; and to present for viewing.
Knowledge of The Joint Commission (TJC), Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), and related regulations and guidelines pertaining to dental matters.
Skill in providing individual and group oral health care instructions to inpatients, outpatients, Nursing Home Care Unit patients, etc.

Do you meet the experience at the next lower grade level (GS-08) requirement as described above?
Note: Please ensure your resume/CV/application contains sufficient information to support the level of experience/education/training; otherwise, we will not be able to award you credit for the experience/education/training you claim.
 Yes
 No


5.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to meeting the experience at the GS-08 level, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Knowledge of hygiene procedures to explain the process and indication, complications and expected treatment outcomes for each.
Knowledge of proper usage of dental radiography equipment, radiation safety, assessment of proper image capture and interpretation of films.
Knowledge to select appropriate available fluoride products and indications/limitations for safe and proper application.
Skill in detecting plaque and calculus, dental abnormalities/pathologies, assessing inflammation and providing safe instrumentation for each procedure.
Skill in educating patients and caregivers on periodontal disease, wellness, health maintenance, oral hygiene practices, parafunctional habits, and effects of illness, addictions, medications and tobacco on the oral cavity.
Ability to assess the patient's medical, dental, anxiety/phobias, medications and comorbidities to administer safe patient care.
Ability to assess the impact of patient's medical and dental condition on maintaining oral health, recognize age-related changes in individual patients, adapt patient environment, and maximize patient's physical comfort.

Do you meet the KSAs requirement for the GS-09 as described above?
Note: Please ensure your resume/CV/application contains sufficient information to support the level of experience/education/training; otherwise, we will not be able to award you credit for the experience/education/training you claim.
 Yes
 No


6.
Verification Statement - Select the appropriate answer to the statement below. Failure to provide an answer will result in your application not being considered for this position.

I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I understand the information provided above and certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify this information and do not wish to be considered for this position.


REMINDER Current, permanent federal employees must submit recent SF-50 from the past 12 months which clearly shows current, permanent federal eligibility. Examples of appropriate SF-50's include:
General adjustment/Cost of living Increase
Within grade increases at the highest grade held
Promotions SF-50's at the highest grade held within the past year
Cash Award, benefit changes or time off Awards 50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted.
Please check your electronic official personnel folder (eOPF) for your most recent SF-50. HR will not contact you for more info or documents. You can attach more than 1 SF50. All current, permanent federal employees applicants must ensure that they have included one or more SF50's showing current, permanent employment status in the past 12 months.



RESUME REMINDER - You must provide a complete application package which includes:
Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title and Grade Level (for Federal positions)
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and knowledge, skills and abilities required for the position)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Your full resume may be uploaded without page limitation into the 'Other' document uploaded field.
Veteran's Preference Documentation - In order to receive appropriate preference consideration, you must submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for veteran's preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference must also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran's Preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).  Applicants claiming spousal veterans preference must provide a copy of marriage certificate, along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form
Proof of current certification, licensure or registration (if applicable)


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙