Position Title
Clinical Laboratory Scientist - EDRP Approved
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZM-12795039-25-JRH Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 4, 2025 to Friday, September 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).
If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Please indicate the highest grade you have held in the Federal government.
--Select-- 
--Select--
I have never held a position in the Federal government.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
5. Please indicate dates of the highest grade you have held in the Federal service (if applicable).
6. In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position within the Department of Veterans Affairs Health Administration. The following section is used to determine basic requirements for appointment in the federal government and qualification for a Clinical Laboratory Scientist (CLS). The full performance level of this vacancy is GS-11. The actual grade at which an applicant may be selected for this vacancy is in the range of GS-07 to GS-11. 

The following KSAs should be reflected within your resume or on a separate document with your application package:

Clinical Laboratory Scientist, GS-09

(a) Knowledge of policies and procedures of clinical laboratory testing.
(b) Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance principles.
(c) Knowledge of laboratory equipment and routine maintenance.
(d) Ability to work as a team member and effectively complete assignments.
(e) Ability to read and interpret written instructions.
(f) Ability to accurately perform pre-analytical, analytical, and post-analytical phases of testing.

Clinical Laboratory Scientist, GS-11.

(a) Knowledge of professional clinical laboratory science principles, practices, concepts, and theories that support sound, independent work.
(b) Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance procedures and principles of performance improvement.
(c) Skill in informatics, laboratory data flow, and laboratory processes.
(d) Ability to maintain, troubleshoot, and repair instrumentation.
(e) Ability to use independent technical judgment to analyze and interpret laboratory results.
(f) Ability to read, interpret, and apply complex written instructions.
(g) Ability to communicate, consult, and interact with other members of the health care team, external relations, customer service, and patient education.

Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and/or education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience and/or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.

HPTs who have successfully completed or are expected to successfully complete an affiliate sponsored or VA sponsored training program may be considered based on completing the requirements listed below by the date of appointment. Please ensure you provide all supporting documentation regarding your training program and expected completion. Ensure you provide details in the provided narrative sections of this assessment.
1. Are you a past, current or upcoming Health Professional Trainee (HPT) who has spent all or part of your clinical training experience at a VA facility, or are you a Health Professional Scholarship Program (HPSP) recipient?
 A. Yes. Please provide details in the narrative below.
 B. No
2. Please provide the following information regarding your HPT Clinical Training Experience: Location of VA facility and dates attended.

3. Education: Do you possess a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university?
 A. Yes. (If your school was accredited by a body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time of graduation, but is no longer listed on the website https://ope.ed.gov/dapip/#/home, or has changed names, you must provide documentation of accreditation with your application packet. Failure to do so will result in an ineligible rating.)
 B. I have completed education outside the U.S. that has been deemed equivalent to that gained in a conventional U.S. program by a private organization specializing in the interpretation of foreign education credentials. The evaluation documentation must be submitted with your application and must show the degree is found to be equivalent to a NAACLS-approved U.S. clinical laboratory science degree program.
 C. I have completed education outside the U.S. that has been deemed equivalent to that gained in a conventional U.S. program by a private organization specializing in the interpretation of foreign education credentials. I am eligible to take the ASCP BOC or AMT certification examination. You must submit a copy of the letter from ASCP BOC or AMT stating you are eligible.
 D. I have completed education outside the U.S. that has been deemed equivalent to that gained in a conventional U.S. program by a private organization specializing in the interpretation of foreign education credentials and I possess the ASCP BOC or AMT certification. You must submit a copy of your ASCP BOC or AMT certification to meet this basic education exemption stating you are eligible.
 E. I am a VA HPT and am on track to complete this requirement. Please provide details in the narrative below.
 F. I meet the grandfathering provision. I have been continuously employed as a Clinical Laboratory Scientist (CL) within VA Since 12/03/2024, the release date of the current CLS Qualification Standard.
 G. No, I do not meet either of these options.
4. IMPORTANT INFORMATION:

 Please provide a response that describes how you meet the basic requirements for this position. Please format your response to match the following template.
Part A: U.S. Education
Completed a bachelor from an accredited college or university in the U.S.? (Yes/No - If completed outside the U.S. please skip to part B)
College or University:
Degree (Ex. Bachelor of science):
Date graduated:
 
Part B: Foreign Education
Completed education outside the U.S. that has been deemed equivalent to that gained in a conventional U.S. program by a private organization specializing in the interpretation of foreign education credentials? (Yes/No)
If yes - You must submit evaluation documentation. Documentation must show the degree is found to be equivalent to a NAACLS-approved U.S. clinical laboratory science degree program.
Eligible to take ASCP BOC or AMT certification examination (Yes/No)
If yes - you must submit a letter from ASCP BOC or AMT stating you are eligible to take the certification exam.
NOTE: Possession of one of the following certifications automatically determines the foreign education as creditable and no further documentation or proof of equivalency is needed.
Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT.
Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT.
Categorical certification or Specialist certification (related to this position) by ASCP or AMT.
5. CERTIFICATION: Please select the option below that best describes how you meet the certification requirements for this position.
 A. I have a Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT
 B. I have a Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT
 C. I have a Categorical certification or Specialist certification by ASCP or AMT related to the lab section for this position.
 D. I am not certified and will actively work towards meeting the required certifications. I meet the following exception. I understand that certification must be obtained within 2 years of appointment. I have a bachelor’s degree or higher from an accredited college or university in medical laboratory science, medical technology, clinical laboratory science, or in a related science (for example, chemistry, biochemistry, biology, microbiology, immunology, etc.) AND I have completed a medical technology clinical practice program within the last 5 years. Clinical practice programs completed after 1974 must be accredited by the NAACLS, Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs (CAAHEP, formerly CAHEA), or the Accrediting Bureau of Health Education Schools (ABHES). The professional curriculum may have consisted of a post-baccalaureate certificate program or be integrated into a 4-year program of study that culminated in a baccalaureate degree.
 E. I am not certified and will actively work towards meeting the required certifications. I meet the following exception. I have A bachelor’s degree from an accredited college/university including 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of biological science (with one course in microbiology), 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of chemistry (with one course in organic or biochemistry*), and one course in mathematics (*NOTE: The successful completion of a NAACLS accredited MLS (certificate) program, NAACLS, ABHES accredited MLT program, or a foreign medical laboratory science clinical training program within the last 5 years can be used in lieu of completion of 1 semester of organic or biochemistry.) AND a Valid Medical Laboratory Technician (MLT) certification by the ASCP BOC, ASCP BOR, or AMT AND I have 1 year of post-MLT certification clinical laboratory experience within the last 3 years. This experience must include performing moderate and/or high complexity testing (as categorized by the FDA) in a clinical laboratory. Research laboratory experience does not fulfill this requirement.
 F. I am not certified and will actively work towards meeting the required certifications. I meet the following exception. I understand that certification must be obtained within 2 years of appointment. I have A bachelor’s degree from an accredited college/university including 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of biological science (with one course in microbiology), 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of chemistry (with one course in organic or biochemistry*), and one course in mathematics (*NOTE: The successful completion of a NAACLS accredited MLS (certificate) program, NAACLS, ABHES accredited MLT program, or a foreign medical laboratory science clinical training program within the last 5 years can be used in lieu of completion of 1 semester of organic or biochemistry.) AND 4 years of clinical laboratory experience within the last nine years performing moderate and/or high complexity testing in blood bank, chemistry, hematology, microbiology, immunology, and clinical microscopy (or categorical experience that matches categorical certification) in a clinical laboratory.
 G. I am not certified and will actively work towards meeting the required certifications. I meet the following exception. I understand that certification must be obtained within 2 years of appointment. I have A bachelor?s degree from an accredited college/university with 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) in biology including one semester in microbiology and 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) in chemistry, which may be obtained within or in addition to, the bachelor?s degree (*NOTE: The successful completion of a NAACLS accredited MLS (certificate) program, NAACLS, ABHES accredited MLT program, or a foreign medical laboratory science clinical training program within the last 5 years can be used in lieu of completion of 1 semester of organic or biochemistry.) AND Completion of a 50-week U.S. Military MLT training program (with official certificate verifying completion of training) within the last 10 years AND I have 1 year full-time clinical laboratory experience within the last 10 years. This experience must include performing moderate and/or high complexity testing in blood banking, chemistry, hematology, microbiology, immunology, and urinalysis/body fluids (or categorical experience that matches categorical certification) in a clinical laboratory. Research laboratory experience does not fulfill this requirement.
 H. I meet the grandfathering provision. I have been continuously employed as a Clinical Laboratory Scientist (CL) within VA Since 12/03/2024, the release date of the current CLS Qualification Standard.
 I. I am a VA HPT and am on track to complete this requirement.
 J. I do not meet the certification requirements.
6. IMPORTANT INFORMATION: Please provide a response that describes how you meet the certification requirements for this position. Please format your response to match the following template. If you meet one of the first 3 Certifications, please enter the info for that specific certification, and you can skip the other sections.
Generalist certification as an MLC given by ASCP BOC or AMT? (Yes/No)
Issuing Body (ASCP BOC/AMT):
Certification Number:
Date First Issued:
Expiration Date:
Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT? (Yes/No)
Issuing Body (ASCP BOR/AMT):
Certification Number:
Date First Issued:
Expiration Date:
Categorical certification or Specialist certification by ASCP or AMT related to the lab section for this position
Issuing Body (ASCP/AMT):
Certification Number:
Date First Issued:
Expiration Date:
If you are not certified, the following exceptions may be granted at the GS-7 level. Please provide a response that describes how you meet an exception to the certification requirements for this position.
Education and Clinical Practice Program:
Bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university in medical laboratory science, medical technology,
clinical laboratory science, or in a related science (for example, chemistry, biochemistry, biology, microbiology, immunology, etc.) (Yes/No):
Bachelor's degree type (Ex. Bachelor of clinical laboratory science):
College or university:
Location, City and State:
Date degree conferred:
Completed a medical technology clinical practice program within the last 5 years (Yes/No):
Note: Clinical practice programs completed after 1974 must be accredited by the NAACLS, Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs (CAAHEP, formerly CAHEA),
or the Accrediting Bureau of Health Education Schools (ABHES).
Note: The professional curriculum may have consisted of a post-baccalaureate certificate program or be integrated into a 4-year program of study that culminated in a baccalaureate degree.
Clinical practice program institution (College or university);
Program name (Ex Clinical laboratory Science practicum):
Date program began (within the last 5 years):
Date program ended (within the last 5 years):
 
Education, Certification, and Experience:
Bachelor's degree from an accredited college/university including the following (Yes/No)
16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of biological science (with one course in microbiology),
16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of chemistry (with one course in organic or biochemistry*),
and one course in mathematics
Note: if yes, you must provide a copy of your transcript with your application.
*NOTE: The successful completion of a NAACLS accredited MLS (certificate) program, NAACLS, ABHES accredited MLT program, or a foreign medical laboratory science clinical training program within the last 5 years can be used in lieu of completion of 1 semester of organic or biochemistry.
Valid Medical Laboratory Technician (MLT) certification by the ASCP BOC, ASCP BOR, or AMT (Yes/No):
Issuing Body (ASCP BOC/ASCP BOR/AMT):
Certification Number:
Date First Issued:
Expiration Date:
1 year of post-MLT certification clinical laboratory experience within the last 3 years (Yes/No):
Place Experience was gained (E.g. Medical Tech Lab):
Work Schedule (Ex. 40 hours per week):
Dates worked (MM/Year - MM/Year):
 
Education and Experience:
Bachelor's degree from an accredited college/university including the following (Yes/No))
16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of biological science (with one course in microbiology),
16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of chemistry (with one course in organic or biochemistry*),
and one course in mathematics
Note: if yes, you must provide a copy of your transcript with your application.
4 years of clinical laboratory experience within the last nine years performing moderate and/or high complexity testing
in blood bank, chemistry, hematology, microbiology, immunology, and clinical microscopy
(or categorical experience that matches categorical certification) in a clinical laboratory. (Yes/No)
Place Experience was gained (E.g. Medical Tech Lab):
Work Schedule (Ex. 40 hours per week):
Dates worked (MM/Year - MM/Year):
*NOTE: The successful completion of a NAACLS accredited MLS (certificate) program, NAACLS, ABHES accredited MLT program, or a foreign medical laboratory science clinical training program within the last 5 years can be used in lieu of completion of 1 semester of organic or biochemistry.
 
Education, Military Training, and Experience:
Bachelor's degree from an accredited college/university including the following (Yes/No))
16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of biological science (with one course in microbiology),
16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of chemistry (with one course in organic or biochemistry*),
and one course in mathematics
*NOTE: The successful completion of a NAACLS accredited MLS (certificate) program, NAACLS, ABHES accredited MLT program, or a foreign medical laboratory science clinical training program within the last 5 years can be used in lieu of completion of 1 semester of organic or biochemistry.
Note: if yes, you must provide a copy of your transcript with your application.
Note: Specific credits may be obtained within or in addition to, the bachelor's degree.
Completion of a 50-week U.S. Military MLT training program (with official certificate verifying completion of training) within the last 10 years (Yes/No)
Note: If yes, must submit Certificate verifying completion of training with this application.
Have 1 year full-time clinical laboratory experience within the last 10 years (Yes/No):
Note: experience must include performing moderate and/or high complexity testing in blood banking, chemistry, hematology, microbiology, immunology, and urinalysis/body fluids
(or categorical experience that matches categorical certification) in a clinical laboratory. Research laboratory experience does not fulfill this requirement.
Place Experience was gained (E.g. Medical Tech Lab):
Work Schedule (Ex. 40 hours per week):
Dates worked (MM/Year - MM/Year):
7. GS-07 GRADE DETERMINATION: Do you meet the basic requirements for this position?

 A. Yes.
 B. I am a VA HPT and am on track to complete this requirement.
 C. I meet the grandfathering provision. I have been continuously employed as a Clinical Laboratory Scientist (CL) within VA Since 12/03/2024, the release date of the current CLS Qualification Standard.
 D. No, I do not meet this requirement.
8. GS-9 GRADE DETERMINATION: Do you have:

Experience: 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade

OR

Education: Master's degree or 2 academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in medical technology or a directly related science?

You must be fully certified to be appointed at the GS-9 level.
- Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT.
- Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT.
- Categorical certification or Specialist certification (related to this position) by ASCP or AMT.
 A. I have 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade. Employees at the CLS entry-level are expected to receive guidance from more experienced staff members and require direct supervision daily.
 B. I have a Master’s degree or 2 academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in medical technology or a directly related science.
 C. I am a VA HPT and am on track to complete this requirement.
 D. I meet the grandfathering provision. I have been continuously employed as a Clinical Laboratory Scientist (CL) within VA Since 12/03/2024, the release date of the current CLS Qualification Standard.
 E. No, I do not meet this requirement.
9. GS-11 GRADE DETERMINATION: Do you have:

Experience. 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level

OR

Education. 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science?


 A. I have 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, GS-9. An individual at the GS-9 grade-level serves as a developmental CLS. The CLS is responsible for evaluating, performing, interpreting, and validating the accuracy and validity of test results. The CLS demonstrates a clear progression of clinical knowledge and experience by performing testing procedures on a variety of biological specimens using manual or automated methods. This includes routine testing, quality control, routine maintenance of instrumentation, and troubleshooting that applies innovative procedures and problem solving. Deviations from regular procedures, unanticipated problems, and unfamiliar situations are referred to more experienced staff for a decision or assistance. Assignments at this level will include developmental duties of increasing scope and diversity as compared to the entry level. It is expected that a CLS at this grade performs more complex work while receiving less frequent supervision than at the entry level.
 B. I have 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science.
 C. I am a VA HPT and am on track to complete this requirement.
 D. I meet the grandfathering provision. I have been continuously employed as a Clinical Laboratory Scientist (CL) within VA Since 12/03/2024, the release date of the current CLS Qualification Standard.
 E. No, I do not meet this requirement.
: ***Application Package Notification & Important Information***

We appreciate your interest in available positions within the VA Heart of Texas Health Care Network.  It is our goal to forward every eligible and qualified candidate for consideration. 

Due to the nature of our systems, it is imperative that your application package be accurate and complete.  Therefore, prior to finalizing your application package and submitting for consideration:
 
Ensure all documents are appropriately selected, are legible, and have uploaded successfully (we recommend viewing them a second time to ensure no errors have occurred in the process).  Missing documents may cause your application package to be ineligible for consideration.
Ensure that all responses to the assessment questions are accurate and correctly reflect your current situation.  Question responses are used in determining if you meet specific eligibility and qualification requirements.

Please Note:  Until the closing date of the announcement, you can update or edit your package.  However, once your application package is submitted and the announcement period closes, we are unable to add documentation or alter your responses.  By submitting your package for consideration, you are attesting that your application package is complete and accurate.

Some helpful tips:
*Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title
Grade Level (for federal positions)
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position)
 Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2020)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
*Education - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.

*Veteran's Preference - In order to receive appropriate preference consideration, you must submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veteran's preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (Member Copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-point Veteran's Preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).

*Current or former VA or Federal Employees - You must submit a copy of a current and/or highest grade held SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action (not an award SF50)

*Proof of current certification, licensure, or registration (if applicable).

https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/students/transcripts/

https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/how-to/account/documents/resume/build/

https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/faq/application/documents/resume/what-to-include/
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected