Position Title
Immigration Services Officer
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12804765-SBD-IMP-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 29, 2025 to Wednesday, October 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current USCIS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 Yes
 No


2.
The Reemployment Priority List (RPL) is the mechanism DHS uses to give reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees separated by reduction-in-force (RIF), or fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a former USCIS employee?  If so, have you met all of the following criteria?
Registered for the RPL program, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupied a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current/most recent performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent, and
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606
For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, visit 5 CFR 330 Subpart B.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
My SF-50 showing Separation - RIF. If that is not available yet, then official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who is in a permanent position that is in the competitive service (see block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type)?

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of our SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who has held, or currently holds, a permanent position in the competitive service (see block #34 of your SF-50) with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?  

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
 Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
I acknowledge the following conditions if I choose to submit my resume through the USAJOBS Resume Builder:
I understand that resumes submitted through USAJOBS Resume Builder are converted to a PDF format when they are transmitted to USA Staffing from the USAJOBS applicant interface and additional spaces/page gaps are added to resumes during the Resume Builder conversion process;
Based on the above conditions, I understand that USCIS strongly encourages me to save my resume to a PDF document and upload the PDF document instead of submitting my resume created through Resume Builder;
I understand that USCIS' human resources will only review the first 2 pages of my resume to determine eligibility/qualifications for this position;
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I have met this requirement for consideration.

(Note: Additional guidance regarding this requirement is available within the How to Submit Your Resume section of the USCIS Resume Requirement FAQs.)
 Yes
 No


2.
There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 Yes
 No
 The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.


3.
Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) from the Federal Government within the last 5 years?
 Yes
 No


4.
This advertisement is open for current permanent USCIS employees of a specified office. Refer to the "Clarification from the agency" section of the vacancy announcement for office specific details. Are you a current permanent employee of the specific USCIS office listed in the "Clarification from the agency" section of this vacancy announcement? Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement, that shows you are a current permanent employee of the USCIS office (block #22 of your SF-50) listed in the announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 Yes
 No


5.
I acknowledge that this position is NOT remote and that if selected, I will be expected to report to the duty station listed within the announcement text.
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I understand this requirement.
By answering NO to this question, I am asking to be removed from further consideration for this position.
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
GS-13 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the requirement as described above.


2.

You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.



3.
This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-13. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent?
 Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent.
 No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent.
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.



The following section contains a multitude of question types. If you see a radio button, you can only select one response. If you see a checkbox, you may select all that apply.



4.
Select the activities you have completed to communicate with applicants and petitioners applying for immigration benefits.
 A. I independently communicated highly technical immigration laws to customers seeking immigration benefits.
 B. I mitigated applicants' objections by analyzing issues and identifying appropriate resources for expedient resolution.
 C. I developed Standard Operating Procedures on how to appropriately adjudicate applications and petitions for immigration benefits.
 D. I followed-up with applicants and petitioners to ensure there were no new/remaining issues.
 E. None of the above.


5.
Which sources have you researched to identify and detect Immigration Fraud?
 A. Immigration and Nationality Act.
 B. Law Enforcement databases.
 C. Obtained information from other agencies.
 D. National Criminal Information Center (NCIC).
 E. Treasury Enforcement Communication System (TECS).
 F. Interviews and sworn statements.
 G. None of the above.


6.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience adjudicating immigration benefits applications?
 I have no experience, training, or education related to adjudicating immigration benefits applications.
 I completed education and/or training related to adjudicating immigration benefits applications, but do not have professional experience.
 I applied immigration laws, rules, and regulations while under supervision.
 I independently applied immigration laws, rules, and regulations to recommend adjudication results.
 I independently adjudicated immigration benefits and wrote final determinations to support my findings.


7.
Which activities have you performed to provide assistance to immigration personnel?
 A. Identified individuals who posed a threat to national security.
 B. Prosecuted those who committed fraud while seeking services and benefits.
 C. Analyzed petitions and applications to discern fraud patterns.
 D. Participated in fact finding and supported enforcement personnel when information indicated fraud.
 E. Granted applications based on review of supporting documentation, data derived from a systems search, and/or evidence generated by hearings or interviews.
 F. Referred cases to appropriate channels where fraud was suspected.
 G. None of the above.


8.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience drafting templates for formal correspondence?
 I copied templates for formal correspondence and adjusted them as appropriate.
 I created new templates for others to use, following proper spacing and memorandum structure.
 I completed education and/or training related to developing correspondence templates, but do not have professional experience.
 None of the above.


9.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers?
 I have not had education and/or training in developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents.
 I have had education and/or training in developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers.
 I have developed and formatted written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers under close supervision to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have independently developed and formatted written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers.
 I have supervised others in, or been regularly consulted as an expert in, developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers.


10.
Which choice best describes your highest level of experience writing documents that are consistent with adjudicative standards?
 I completed education and/or training related to writing documents consistent with adjudicative standards, but do not yet have professional experience.
 I drafted documents for senior level review and finalization.
 I independently researched and interpreted adjudicative standards in order to create logical, well organized correspondence related to benefit cases.
 I independently reviewed and approved others' documents to ensure standards were met.
 None of the above.


11.
Which sources of information have you independently researched and interpreted to embrace a course of action related to a case?
 A. Sections of law and regulations
 B. Standard Operating Procedures
 C. References and guidance contained in legislative history
 D. Precedent decisions
 E. International treaties
 F. None of the above


12.
Select the activities you have performed related to ensuring the accuracy of data related to the adjudications of benefits.
 A. Reviewed applications/petitions for completeness.
 B. Verified accuracy of entered data
 C. Updated database with new or revised information.
 D. Created queries to facilitate data review.
 E. Conducted database searches to identify potential issues (i.e., data discrepancies).
 F. None of the above.


13.
Which sources have you researched to adjudicate applications for benefits?
 A. Precedent decisions
 B. Guidance in legislative history
 C. Federal laws and regulations
 D. State and local news
 E. Operating instructions
 F. International treaties
 G. None of the above


14.
What statements apply to your experience developing communication strategies designed to encourage employee innovation and participation in overcoming operational challenges and policy changes.
 A. I coached and mentored employees, both formally and informally, in order to improve performance, identify leadership development opportunities, and empower individual employees to become change agents within the agency and department.
 B. I led other supervisors in fostering open feedback and communication, continued development of leadership skills, and responsibility to develop their own subordinates.
 C. I have given advice, counsel or instruction to employees on both work and administrative matters.
 D. I have taken training on strategic communication designed to create corporate visioning and culture.
 E. I have written or co-authored communication strategies for senior leaders to execute.
 F. None of the above statements describe my experience.


15.
In which settings have you delivered training on Immigration Fraud detection or Immigration benefit requests?
 A. Informal briefings.
 B. Internal formal classes
 C. Applied, on-the-job training.
 D. Online webinars.
 E. External conferences.
 F. External workshops.
 G. None of the above.


16.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience developing and/or delivering training in written communication?
 I have no experience, education, or training related to developing/delivering training in written communication.
 I completed education and/or training related to developing/delivering written communication training, but do not have professional experience
 I drafted outlines and tailored content of training curriculum based on customer needs.
 I presented written communication training using existing curriculum and materials
 I independently created written communication training curriculum and materials.


17.
Indicate your level of experience briefing Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 I have applied numerous techniques to provide briefing to Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 I have performed nuanced research to develop imaginative ways to proffer information to Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 I have cultivated custom presentation techniques in the analysis of information and the briefing Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 I have spearheaded mission specific teams in identifying definitive information to be presented to Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 I do not meet any of the options provided.


18.
Choose the statement(s) below that reflect(s) your experience giving oral presentations in a professional setting.
 A. I have given oral presentations to external parties and high-level management.
 B. I have given oral presentations to supervisory staff.
 C. I have given oral presentations to peers and colleagues.
 D. I have given oral presentations to subordinate staff.
 E. I have never given oral presentations.


19.
Which statement best describes your experience creating presentations.
 A. I have created presentations based on data provided to me
 B. I have created presentations from data I have sourced
 C. I have created presentations from data I have interpreted
 D. I have no experience creating presentations


20.
If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "pass," "satisfactory," or better?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. I am a Federal employee but have not received a performance rating.
 D. Not applicable. I am not a Federal employee.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


21.
Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙