Position Title
COMBATANT COMMAND REPRESENTATIVE
Agency
Defense Threat Reduction Agency
Announcement Number
DTRA-25-12802693-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 17, 2025 to Wednesday, September 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. .

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. From the descriptions below, select the letter that best describes your level of specialized experience.

 A. For the GS-15 grade level: I have one year of specialized experience at the next lower grade (GS-14) or equivalent in the federal service (experience may have been gained in the private sector). Specialized Experienced is defined as: Providing vision and direction in leading a small high performing team in achieving results. Lead communication efforts across all forms (written, verbal, etc...) with high level officials to ensure the proper flow of critical information. Executing a strong understanding of the Defense Threat Reduction Agency's mission and capabilities. Applying a broad-scoped understanding of DoD's CBRN-Defense and Counter WMD enterprise and functions. Possess a strong understanding of DoD Joint Operations, planning, and functions of a CCMD and high-level joint staff operations. Leading planning teams and working groups that provide actionable outcomes. Leading a customer focus in providing analytical support, developing projects, plans and policies, subject matter expertise and advice associated with countering WMDs and mitigating CBRN threats to the supported command.
 B. I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.
2. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience with a directing a team to assist joint/combined force commander (J/CFC) staff planning related to conducting CBRN operations in contingency operations.

 A. Mastery in directing a team's activities in the full range of CBRN planning considerations that supports the commanders? decision cycle, including the role of multinational partners and the interagency.
 B. Thorough understanding of the operational challenges encountered by teams to sustained operations associated with planning and executing CBRN activities in support of a JFC.
 C. Comprehensive knowledge of hazard awareness and understanding in applying it as part of a team to a joint operational environment.
 D. None of the above.
3. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience with providing guidance and direction to a team to achieve actionable outcomes for a large organization such as a combatant command or combat support agency.

 A. (I have independently led multiple teams of varying sizes and diversity by providing daily guidance and direction, with no supervision, to achieve actionable outcomes or a large organization such as a combatant command or combat support agency.
 B. Under the guidance and supervision of a more senior or experienced manager, I have led temporary project or other types of teams of varying sizes and diversity to achieve actionable outcomes or a large organization such as a combatant command or combat support agency.
 C. I have participated in or contributed to multiple project or other teams but never led one through all the key phases.
 D. None of the above.
4. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience with managing a successful project team, working group (WG), operational planning team (OPT) or joint planning group (JPG).

 A. I have independently led project teams, working groups (WG), operational planning teams (OPT) or joint planning groups (JPG) with no supervision, to achieve actionable outcomes for a large organization such as a combatant command or combat support agency.
 B. Under the guidance and supervision of a more senior or experienced manager, I have led project teams, working groups (WG), operational planning teams (OPT) or joint planning groups (JPG) to achieve actionable outcomes for a large organization such as a combatant command or combat support agency.
 C. I have participated in or contributed to multiple project teams, working groups (WG), operational planning teams (OPT) or joint planning groups (JPG). to achieve actionable outcomes for a large organization such as a combatant command or combat support agency. but never led one through all the key phases.
 D. None of the above.
5. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience with the operational framework for countering WMD.

 A. Mastery in the full range of CWMD principles and associated specialized activities.
 B. Thorough understanding and extensive experience with CWMD operations and activities focused on pathway defeat utilizing prevent, protect, and respond as CWMD organizing principles for planning.
 C. Comprehensive knowledge of how to operate in a CBRN environment, CBRN threats, military planning for CBRN, and CBRND doctrine.
 D. None of the above.
6. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience with the DTRA Programs & Activities Module (DPAM).

 A. Expert knowledge of the DTRA Programs & Activities Module its purpose, and the capabilities and activities from across the Agency that are available to customers, most notably the combatant commands.
 B. Knowledge of the DTRA Programs & Activities Module its purpose, and the combat support agency programs from across the Agency that are available to customers, most notably the combatant commands.
 C. Awareness of the DTRA Programs & Activities Module with some awareness of Agency capabilities that are available to customers.
 D. None of the above.
7. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience with the competition continuum.

 A. Expert knowledge of the strategic guiding documents and strategic environment under which DoD and DTRA develops and executes CWMD strategies to conduct the full range of military operations in support of strategic competition.
 B. Possesses a thorough understanding and extensive experience with the goals and objectives of the DTRA Strategy document and DoD policy on strategic competition.
 C. Familiar with competition continuum.
 D. None of the above.
8. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience in the area of joint operations planning.

 A. Mastery in the full range of joint contingency planning procedures, processes, policies, regulations, and systems.
 B. Thorough understanding and extensive experience with the Joint Operations Planning Process (JOPP), and joint doctrine related to operational planning, implementation, and execution.
 C. Comprehensive knowledge of DOD organization and structure of Service Commands and Unified Commands. In addition to, knowledge of strategic guiding documents to include the National Defense Strategy, National Military Strategy, and Joint Strategic Capabilities Plan.
 D. None of the above.
9. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your familiarity with the US national and national military strategies.

 A. Expert knowledge of US national and national military strategies to include National Military Strategy to apply to planning, programs, intelligence, doctrine, and policy.
 B. Knowledge of campaign and contingency plans management and review processes and procedures, specifically the in-progress review requirements for development of contingency plans and the adaptive planning tools to support this process.
 C. Skill in translating strategic guidance into joint operation plans (OPLANs) and operation orders (OPORDs).
 D. None of the above.
10. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience with performing mission analyses.

 A. Expert understanding of applying the military decision-making process (MDMP) to conduct mission analyses, and experienced in writing strategic level concepts.
 B. Possesses a thorough understanding and extensive experience with the military decision-making process (MDMP) and the mission analysis process and products.
 C. Understands and applies the military decision-making process in order to conduct mission analysis of assigned projects.
 D. None of the above. COMPTENCY ID: 231
11. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your previous experience with participating in or leading WMD or CWMD projects for a large organization such as a combatant command or combat support agency.

 A. I have independently led multiple WMD/CWMD projects of varying complexity through all the key phases (initiation, planning, execution, performance/monitoring, and closeout) with no supervision, answering directly to a program manager or customer.
 B. Under the guidance and supervision of a more senior or experience project manager, I have led multiple WMD/CWMD projects of varying complexity through all the key phases (initiation, planning, execution, performance/monitoring, and closeout).
 C. I have participated in or contributed to multiple project teams but never led one through all the key phases.
 D. None of the above.
12. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience with contextualizing and communicating complex WMD/CWMD programmatic to senior leaders, project teams, and customers.

 A. Fully conversant in WMD/CWMD project-related communication strategies and practices. Expert in contextualizing and communicating programmatic topics related to each phase of a project to a wide array of senior leaders, project teams, and customers on a regular basis.
 B. Under the guidance and supervision of a more senior or experience project manager, I have led meetings, developed talking points and other products to communicate programmatic information to key stakeholders.
 C. (lower level/assistance description): I have participated in or contributed to key milestone events, including discussions that required my inputs to inform decision-making.
 D. None of the above.
13. From the following responses, please select the statement that best describes your experience with strategic competition from an Intelligence Community perspective.

 A. Expert knowledge and understanding of the Intelligence Community and how it operates from the national to combatant command levels to address strategic competition. Able to navigate the Intelligence apparatus of a large organization and form relationships that inform and enable WMD and CWMD-related projects I have worked on or led.
 B. Possesses a thorough understanding and extensive experience with the goals and objectives of the Intelligence community and its role in strategic competition.
 C. No experience in the area of strategic competition and the Intelligence Community's role in it.
 D. None of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected