Position Title
Deckhand
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERG2612829399DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, November 4, 2025 to Tuesday, November 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Deckhand position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Deckhand duties without more than normal supervision.

 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex of tasks which include; securing floating plant with manila and synthetic lines, cables, wire straps, ratchets, etc.; handling lines in making up and breaking up tows; securing, fastening, hooking, and unhooking floating plant; operating and/or utilizing deck equipment such as small tow-line winch, capstans, winch-counted timber heads, and ratchets in tightening and securing lines and floating plant; deck equipment repair; driving trucks or other vehicles; and general maintenance and housekeeping. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of tasks including; conducting periodic checks and inspections of mooring stabilizing and towing lines, lashing and ratchets, and below dock compartments; replacing frayed lines, tightening loose lashings and lines, replacing broken lines and pumps; conducting channel patrol activities, outboard motor operation, deck equipment repair, driving trucks or other vehicles, general maintenance and housekeeping. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common of tasks including; conducting channel patrol activities, outboard motor operation, securing, fastening, hooking, and unhooking floating plant; operating and/or utilizing deck equipment such as small tow-line winch, capstans, winch-counted timber heads, and ratchets in tightening and securing lines and floating plant, deck equipment repair, driving trucks or other vehicles, general maintenance and housekeeping. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple of tasks including; removing excess oil and grease from machinery; cleaning parts with solvent; performing simple mechanical repairs under direct supervision; performing routine below deck maintenance such as sweeping and cleaning of engine and boiler room; and assisting in general vessel maintenance such as washing and hosing decks as well as chipping and scraping rust.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙