Position Title
SUPERVISORY SECURITIES COMPLIANCE EXAMINER
Agency
Securities and Exchange Commission
Announcement Number
25-IN-12779690-KLC Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 7, 2025 to Thursday, August 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Have you served on a Schedule C appointment or as a political appointee anytime within the last 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current SEC employee serving on a permanent or conditional appointment? 

To determine your eligibility, please refer to your last SF-50.  To be eligible, your tenure code must be 1 or 2 AND your status must reflect competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1). 

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. From the options below, please indicate the choice that BEST describes your situation:
 A. I am an external candidate and I certify that I have read and understand that should I be selected for the position, the resume and application materials I have submitted will be used to determine salary. I also understand that I will not be permitted to provide an updated resume to OHR after the application period has closed.
 B. I am a current SEC employee and I certify that I have read and understand that should I be selected for this position and it results in a promotion, the standard percentage increase will be applied (i.e., 6% for non-supervisory and 10% for supervisory positions) to determine my salary. I understand that should I be selected for this position and it results in lateral movement (i.e. no change in grade) I will maintain my current salary. I also understand that if I should be selected for this position and it results in a change in grade from an SK-15 to an SK-16, I will maintain my current salary.
2. How did you hear about this position?
--Select-- 
--Select--
American Economic Association (AEA-JOE Network)
Career Fair (Please specify below)
College/University Job Board (e.g., Handshake, Symplicity)
Email from SEC Recruitment Team
Facebook
Friend (non-SEC Employee)
Friend (SEC Employee) (Please specify below)
I am a current SEC Employee or Contractor
Indeed
Job Board (Please specify below)
LinkedIn – Job Post
LinkedIn – Message from SEC Recruiter
SEC Careers Website (www.sec.gov/careers)
SEC Information Session
Social Science Research Network (SSRN)
USAJOBS – Job Search
USAJOBS – Message from SEC Recruiter
USAJOBS – Saved Search Email
X (formerly known as "Twitter")
Other source (e.g., job board, print ad, professional organization, website) (Please specify below)
3. Please specify based on your selection above as applicable:
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Securities Compliance Examiner, SK-1831-17 position in the Office of Credit Ratings (OCR) with United States Securities and Exchange Commission. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Are you a current OCR employee serving under a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service (Please refer to your 'SF50, block 34' - if your 'SF50 shows 1' then you are in the competitive service)?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Please select the response that best describes the experience that demonstrates your ability to perform as a Supervisory Securities Compliance Examiner.

 A. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS/SK-14: Reviewing and evaluating the policies, procedures, practices, and records related to the structure, operations, and practices of Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations (NRSROs), and NRSROs’ compliance with statutory and rule requirements.
 B. I do not have the experience as described above and therefore I am ineligible for the position.
3. Please select the response that best describes the experience that demonstrates your ability to perform as a Supervisory Securities Compliance Examiner.

 A. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS/SK-14: Leading teams of staff with varying backgrounds (e.g., legal, accounting, examining).
 B. I do not have the experience as described above and therefore I am ineligible for the position.
4. Please select the response that best describes the experience that demonstrates your ability to perform as a Supervisory Securities Compliance Examiner.

 A. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS/SK-14: Identifying and/or evaluating emerging trends in the credit ratings industry.
 B. I do not have the experience as described above and therefore I am ineligible for the position.
5. Please select the response that best describes the experience that demonstrates your ability to perform as a Supervisory Securities Compliance Examiner.

 A. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS/SK-14: Performing and facilitating interviews with entities being examined and monitored and preparing analyses and/or reports on examination findings and monitoring discussions.
 B. I do not have the experience as described above and therefore I am ineligible for the position.
6. Please select the response that best describes the experience that demonstrates your ability to perform as a Supervisory Securities Compliance Examiner.

 A. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS/SK-14: Preparing oral presentations and drafting written work product.
 B. I do not have the experience as described above and therefore I am ineligible for the position.
The following questions assess your qualifications. Please select the best answer(s) that describe(s) your experience.
7. Please select the statement that best demonstrates your experience performing examinations or investigations of nationally recognized statistical rating organizations, investment companies, investment advisers, registered broker-dealers, transfer agents, etc., in accordance with federal securities laws, rules, and regulations.
 A. I have led difficult examinations, inspections, investigations, or audits analyzing operations and procedures, sales practices, processes, and supervisory systems, books, records, and financial statements, and other data applicable to the business of the registrant to assess the level of compliance with federal securities law statutes and regulations.
 B. I have researched and analyzed a wide variety of securities issues. Evaluated data from financial publications, state securities commission, or other self-regulatory agencies to appraise an investment company's level of compliance.
 C. I have analyzed formal filings made by the registrant with the SEC to assess the level of compliance with statutes and regulations governing securities transactions. Researched and analyzed complex compliance issues.
 D. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task.
8. Please select the statement that best demonstrates your experience performing examinations or investigations to protect the investing public from fraud and misappropriation of funds.

 A. I have prepared a detailed plan encompassing the full range of difficulty and variety in conducting examinations or investigations. As part of this function, I have obtained information from other sources in the absence of company records.
 B. I have planned analyses for assigned registrants with a good history of compliance and for which information was readily available. As part of this function, I have examined the adequacy of books and records, and the registrant's procedures for safeguarding funds and securities.
 C. I have followed an established plan in analyzing the operational and financial condition of an assigned investment company or adviser, broker- dealer, and/or transfer agent. As part of this function, I participated in evaluating facets of the company's activities.
 D. I have not had experience in performing this task.
9. Please select the types of examinations you have experience conducting (Please select all that apply).
 A. NRSRO
 B. Investment advisers
 C. Municipal Advisers
 D. Investment Companies
 E. Broker dealers
 F. Portfolio Management and Securities trading
 G. Legal and regulatory compliance
 H. Risk analysis
 I. Valuation of securities
 J. Transfer Agents
 K. None
10. Please select the statement that best describes your experience gathering, compiling, and analyzing financial and/or auditing information.

 A. I have extensive experience gathering, compiling, and analyzing complex financial data; and have an expert understanding of the federal securities laws.
 B. I have some experience gathering, compiling, and analyzing complex financial l data; and have professional understanding of the federal securities laws.
 C. I have limited experience gathering, compiling, and analyzing complex financial data; and have some understanding of the federal securities laws.
 D. I do not have experience in performing this task.
11. Please select the statement that best demonstrates your experience directing and managing staff engaged in investigating, examining, or monitoring NRSROs to ensure compliance with Commission rules and regulations.

 A. I have led various examinations, investigations, audits or monitoring activities effectively by setting a positive and professional tone for examiners, accountants, and other staff, and motivating them to fulfill goals and objectives.
 B. I have promoted and maintained an environment of cooperation and created a high level of team cohesion by empowering examiners, accountants, and other staff, shared relevant information with staff and managers, and sought to develop and utilize the contributions of all examiners, managers and other staff.
 C. I have coordinated various types of examinations, investigations, auditing or monitoring teams and facilitated an efficient and thorough process by communicating with the teams, to provide information needed to complete tasks and adapt to changing conditions.
 D. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task.
12. From the list below select the statement(s) that describe(s) your experience supervising or leading others (Please select all that apply).

 A. I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates, set and adjusted short-term priorities, and prepared schedules for completion of work.
 B. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty and requirements of assignments, and the capabilities of employees.
 C. I have given advice, counsel, or instruction to employee s on both work and administrative matters.
 D. I have interviewed candidates for positions in the unit; recommended appointment, promotion, or reassignment to such positions.
 E. I have identified developmental and training needs of employee s, providing or arranging for needed development and training.
 F. I have devised ways to improve production or increase the quality of the work directed.
 G. I have not had experience in performing this task.
13. Please select the statement that best demonstrates your experience in oral communications to develop and present concise and convincing information and opinions that may be used as a basis for critical management decisions and/or in legal or administrative proceedings.

 A. I have regularly justified, persuaded, negotiated, or resolved matters involving significant or controversial policy or program issues. This included communicating effectively and harmoniously with a full range of internal and external individuals or groups (e.g., representatives from Agency, Department, other Federal agencies, industry leaders, and finance l regulators).
 B. I have regularly served as a program representative and participated in discussions in which the purpose was to plan, coordinate, or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific business problems. This Included influencing or motivating individuals or groups who are working toward mutual goals and who have basically cooperative attitudes.
 C. I have regularly conducted discussions or participate d in workgroups as a program representative, in which the purpose was to influence, motivate, or persuade persons or groups. This included using communication skills to approach individuals or groups who are skeptical or in disagreement in order to obtain the desired effect, (e.g. gaining compliance with an established policy or regulation).
 D. I have participated in verbal discussions, such as conferences or meetings, to justify or negotiate matters involving significant or controversial issues.
 E. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task.
14. Please select the statement that best describes your experience serving as a technical expert and representing an agency in meetings, conferences and a wide range of public forums.

 A. I have represented my organization at significant external meetings and conferences where I presented the organization’s viewpoints on compliance issues to align with the organization’s/an agency’s mission. Contacts were generally with other federal agencies and external organizations within the securities industry, and/or with securities industry professionals.
 B. I have made presentations to senior level professionals, managers, or at conferences, and other public settings to brief audiences on research data collected, exam priorities and risk areas.
 C. I have presented analytical research findings and presented recommendations within the agency to supervisors and staff members.
 D. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task.
15. From the list be low, select the types of written products you have produced that were presented to senior management without major technical revisions. (Please select all that apply).

 A. Policy statements and guidance.
 B. Recommendations for solutions to policy or reporting problems.
 C. Guidelines or procedural instructions for implementing new initiatives or systems.
 D. Presentations or briefing materials.
 E. None of the above.
16. Please select the statement that best describes your experience using written communication to convey information.

 A. I have no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have developed written material relating to complex and technical issues resulting from investigations.
 C. I have used written communication to convey technical issues, complaints, securities laws and/or industry practices.
 D. I have used written communication to convey technical issues, complaints, securities laws and/or industry practices, and findings resulting from investigations.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected