Position Title
PROGRAM MANAGER
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
USBP-IMP-12770901-MCL Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 6, 2025 to Tuesday, August 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from DHS?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-14 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
3. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
4. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
5. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
Assessment 1
The following question will only be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-14 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes: Overseeing overall planning, direction, and timely execution of program activities; Providing direction in project management, team building, facilitation, process improvement analysis; Implementing quantitative and qualitative methods within the scope of the respective project and reporting of results; Identifying and resolving unique issues where no policy exists, taking innovative actions to address new needs and/or issues; Serving as the project leader for assigned program segments and/or projects and as the Subject Matter Expert (SME) relating to activities of assigned segments and projects.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
2. Select the option that best describes your experience developing plans for a program or an organization.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. Under the close guidance of others, I have developed short-range plans for a program (for example, set timelines, established milestones, identified needed resources).
 C. I have independently developed both short- and long-range plans for a program or organization (for example, set timelines, established milestones, identified needed resources).
 D. I have overseen the development of plans for a program or organization that were broad in scope and complex, involving multiple organizational entities.
3. Select the option that best describes your experience communicating and coordinating to build consensus for actions needed to execute a program.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have communicated and coordinated within my immediate work unit to build consensus on actions needed to execute a project.
 C. I have communicated and coordinated extensively with managers and staff within an organizational department to build consensus on actions needed to execute a project.
 D. I have led communication and coordination with all levels of a large organization to build consensus on actions needed to execute a program.
4. Select the option that best describes your experience reporting to higher level officials on program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have reported primarily to my immediate supervisor, either formally or informally, on program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.
 C. I have given formal written reports and oral briefings to higher level officials both within and outside my organization regarding program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.
 D. I have given formal briefings to higher level officials in the organization regarding program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.
5. Select the option that best describes your experience in expressing facts and ideas in writing.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written short responses to routine requests for information.
 C. I have written portions of reports, information papers, and other documents (technical and non-technical).
 D. I have independently composed written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, and other complete documents based on study findings and results of analyses.
 E. I have independently completed one or more written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, and other complete documents based on study findings and results of analyses. I have successfully tailored written information to the technical knowledge of my audience.
6. Select the option which best describes your experience in responding to new information, changing conditions, or unexpected obstacles.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have adapted to minor or temporary changes affecting my own assignments or work schedule by rescheduling work or refocusing my efforts.
 C. I have rearranged some priorities and rescheduled a significant amount of work to accommodate changes in resources or goals. I have recommended new methods in situations in which established procedures were unavailable or inapplicable.
 D. I have rearranged virtually all work priorities and schedules to accommodate sudden major changes, problems, or setbacks. I have chosen or developed new methods in situations in which established procedures were unavailable or inapplicable.
7. Select the option which best describes your experience projecting funding requirements for future initiatives in the out-years based upon anticipated agency needs.

 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task or function.
 B. I have had education, or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
8. Select the option that best describes your experience reviewing and analyzing budget submissions to including budgetary goals, timetables, milestones, and criteria for assessing program cost-effectiveness.

 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task or function.
 B. I have had education, or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
9. Select the option that best describes your experience attending briefings and conferences to justify and defend budget estimates.

 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task or function.
 B. I have had education, or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
10. Select the option that best describes your experience in budget formulation (i.e., development of performance-based budget requests).

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function with close review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant.
 C. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant.
 D. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job, even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee or senior consultant.
 E. Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have trained or instructed others on this task or function.
11. Select the option that best describes your experience interpreting legislative and policy issues that affect the organization's budget and programs.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have developed special exhibits required by the organization
 C. I have drafted authorization and appropriation language for my organization.
 D. I have analyzed legislation to determine the impact on the organization's budget, programs and operations.
 E. I have analyzed enacted legislation for use in developing organization's budget, policies and procedures.
12. Select the option that best describes your experience performing budget tasks in support of the major phases of the budget process (i.e., formulation, justification, presentation, execution, etc.).

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have conducted all aspects of budget formulation, and presentation for a national program.
 C. I developed an organization's budgetary policies and procedures or provided advice to executives on budget matters of major significance.
 D. I provided expert analysis and advice on a wide range of budgetary activities related to the review, justification, and presentation of an organization's budget (i.e., developing a cost-benefit analysis of proposed budgetary and program actions and providing advice on the most advantageous course(s) of action).
 E. I managed all phases of budget planning, programming, formulation, and presentation for a budget with multiple funds and multi-year programs.
13. Select the option that best describes your experience coordinating the preparation of major segments of an organization's budget.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have recommended and justified necessary budgetary changes to proposed program budgets.
 C. I have prepared reviewed, analyzed and interpreted legislative authorization and appropriation language.
 D. I have analyzed, advised and recommended solutions to budget formulation, justification and presentation problems.
 E. I have analyzed and edited budget estimates and requests submitted by program managers for accuracy of technical treatment and format, adequacy of the supporting narrative, statistical and graphic presentation and conformance with budgetary policy and guidance.
14. Select the option that best describes your experience communicating effectively with people of diverse budgetary skills and backgrounds.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have developed and maintained alliances with other budget professionals within and outside my organization.
 C. I have represented and spoken on behalf of my organizational unit and its work to those within and outside the office.
 D. I have participated in organizational level sessions to arrive at the overall budget strategies, which were pursued in the presentation phase of the organization's indirect budget requests. I have established and maintained working relationships with internal organizational units.
15. Selection the option that best describes your experience developing and writing guidelines when missing or incomplete.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have performed this task on the job. My work was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 C. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected