Position Title
AIRCRAFT ENGINE MECHANIC
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12824847-AF-26-006 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, October 28, 2025 to Saturday, September 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
8
10


Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1, 2 and 3 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA AIR NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-1172.


2.
Are you an enlisted member in the grades of E1 - E6?
 Yes. I am an enlisted member in the grades of E1 - E6.
 No. I am not an enlisted member in the grades of E1 - E6.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Air National Guard.


3.
APPLICANTS MUST BE ABLE TO OBTAIN AN MINIMUM OF A SECRET CLEARANCE TO BE CONSIDERED ELIGIBLE. Do you currently possess a Secret or higher security clearance, OR ABLE TO OBTAIN a Secret Clearance?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions truthfully and to the best of your ability.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you posses experience or training that has provided the ability to perform assembly and disassembly operations and make prescribed modifications to aircraft engines, engine assemblies, and accessories in accordance with technical specifications, procedures and requirements. Experience using hand and power tools common to the trade.
 Yes
 No


2.
WG-08: Do you posses 12 months experience or training removing and installing components and accessories with detailed guidance. Experience in following detailed instructions in making minor repairs and modifications to aircraft engines, subassemblies and components.
 Yes
 No


3.
WG-10: Do you posses 18 months experience or training performing standard, routine assembly and disassembly operations and making prescribed modifications to aircraft engines, engine assemblies, and accessories. Experience or training performing maintenance overhaul, troubleshooting, testing, and repair of aircraft engines, engine components, and power trains for fixed and/or rotary wing aircraft. Experience determining maintenance needed from work orders, inspection reports, historical record, and by own diagnosis.
 Yes
 No


4.
Describe a time when you were faced with a particularly complex engine malfunction that wasn't immediately obvious. What steps did you take to diagnose the problem, what resources did you utilize, and what was the outcome? Be specific about the tools and data you used in your analysis.


5.
You've completed a major overhaul on an aircraft engine, and it's time for test cell operation. During the run, you observe a parameter slightly outside of acceptable limits. Describe how you would proceed, including the steps you'd take to verify the issue, the adjustments you might make, and how you would ensure the engine meets all safety standards before certification for flight.


6.
Imagine you are troubleshooting an issue with an aircraft engine, and it becomes apparent that the problem is related to the aircraft's fuel system. How would you approach this situation, given that the fuel system falls outside of your primary area of expertise? Describe your communication strategy and how you would collaborate with other work centers to resolve the issue.


7.
You've noticed a recurring malfunction with a specific engine component. This issue has resulted in multiple repairs within a short period. Describe the steps you would take to investigate the root cause of this recurring problem and what actions you would take to prevent it from happening again.


8.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙