Position Title
Interdisciplinary Engineer
Agency
Defense Contract Management Agency
Announcement Number
DCMA-POSF-25-12792540-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 3, 2025 to Monday, September 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0801 - General Engineering
 B. 0830 - Mechanical Engineering
 C. 0854 - Computer Engineering
 D. 0855 - Electronics Engineering
 E. 0861 - Aerospace Engineering
 F. 0896 - Industrial Engineering
2. Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Interdisciplinary Engineer position with the Defense Contract Management Agency. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1. The purpose of this question is to verify that you meet the basic requirements for this position. Please select the best answer that fits your situation. FAILURE TO ANSWER THIS QUESTION WILL MAKE YOU INELIGIBLE. APPLICANTS MUST PROVIDE SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION TO SUPPORT THIS BASIC REQUIREMENT.
 A. I have a bachelor's degree or higher in professional engineering. The curriculum for this degree must have been gained through a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; or include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: a) statics, dynamics; b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; d) thermodynamics; e) electrical fields and circuits; f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and g) any other comparable areas of fundamental engineering science of physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics.
 B. I have a combination of education and experience - college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished me with a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques, and their applications to one of the branches of engineering as demonstrated by professional registration or licensure. (This includes current registration as an Engineering Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by and State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico.
 C. I have a combination of education and experience - college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished me with a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques, and their applications to one of the branches of engineering as demonstrated by having successfully passed the fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico.
 D. I have a combination of education and experience - college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished me with a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques, and their applications to one of the branches of engineering as demonstrated by successful completion of at least 60 semester hours of courses in physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences that included the courses specified in response A above.
 E. I have a combination of education and experience - college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished me with a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques, and their applications to one of the branches of engineering as demonstrated by successful completion of a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in engineering technology or in an appropriate professional field, e.g., physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, and have at least one year of professional engineering experience under the guidance and supervision of a professional engineer.
 F. My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statements.
2. From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all the statements completely before making your selection.
 A. I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Applying engineering principles, concepts, and standards in support of defense acquisition systems; Conducting engineering surveillance of technical processes throughout acquisition lifecycles; Using engineering principles to evaluate contractor compliance against contractual requirements; Acting as a principal contributor on team-based projects related to contractual processes.
 B. I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected