Position Title
PROGRAM MANAGER (ACQUISITION)
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
USBP-IMP-12758210-SNM Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 17, 2025 to Wednesday, July 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1.
Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from DHS?  If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction:  As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of GS-15?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Federal employees who competed for and currently hold, or have previously held, a permanent position of GS-15 (or equivalent) or higher, may be referred for selection without competition under our agency promotion procedures. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-11 position with promotion potential to the GS-13.  The progression is GS-11, GS-12, and GS-13.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-13.
Your current position is a GS-14. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-15 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-14.
Your current position is a GS-14. You previously held a GS-15 position on a permanent basis.  GS-15 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-14 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-14 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-14 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-15 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
3. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
4. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
5. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
6. All newly appointed, GS-15s are required to complete mandatory leadership training. The Office of Training and Development will schedule eligible managers to attend the training within the first 90 days of appointment. All newly appointed, permanent GS-15s shall attain the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to successfully perform their responsibilities by completing required leadership training in accordance with agency policy.

NOTE: This training may be waived if previously completed.

Do you acknowledge that you will be required to schedule the mandatory training within the first 90-days of your appointment and complete the training in Harpers Ferry, WV unless you have already completed this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. The following question will be used to determine if you meet the certification requirement. An applicant must possess a FAI FAC-P/PM Senior-Level Program Management certification with DHS P/PM Specialization, or the ability to obtain this certification within 18 months of placement. The position may also require DHS IT Specialization if assigned to an IT or Mixed Program.

Please select the answer that best describes your certification level.
 A. I currently possess a FAI FAC-P/PM Senior-Level Program Management certification with DHS P/PM Specialization.
 B. I have the ability to obtain these certifications within 18 months of placement to the position.
 C. I do not currently possess a FAI FAC-P/PM Senior-Level Program Management certification with DHS P/PM Specialization or will not have the ability to obtain these certifications within 18 months of placement to the position.
Assessment 1
The following question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-15 grade level?

 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes: Organizing and coordinating thorough, systematic, and professional efforts to meet complex planning needs and unanticipated requirements, and providing written and oral reports; Directing work to be accomplished by the subordinates and setting as well as adjusting short-term priorities and monitoring schedules for the completion of work; Analyzing and evaluating existing, new, and emerging functional requirements of the acquisition, operational standards, and measures of effectiveness; Using financial management principles to secure appropriate funds to prepare, justify, and manage program budgets in order to set priorities and track expenses in support of the mission.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
2. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of principles, policies, procedures, laws, and regulations related to acquisition management.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have a working knowledge of principles, policies, procedures, laws, and regulations related to acquisition management gained through training, but I have not yet applied it on the job.
 C. I have used my knowledge of principles, policies, procedures, laws, and regulations related to acquisition management to resolve technical and operational questions regarding a program.
 D. I am acknowledged as a technical expert regarding acquisition management. I am often consulted to resolve unique issues where no policy exists or address new needs/issues.
3. Indicate the extent of your experience in taking innovative actions to address new needs and issues.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have contributed to an innovative action addressing new needs or issues as a member of a group or problem solving team.
 C. I have independently taken innovative actions to address new needs and issues of moderate complexity. My peers have sought me out due to my expertise in generating innovative ideas to address complex problems.
 D. My superiors have consulted me for my expertise in taking innovative actions to address highly complex, technical, or specialized matters. New policies, practices, or procedures have been implemented as a result of my ability to generate innovative strategies.
4. Indicate the extent to which you have identified the impact and implications of alternative decisions on the program or organization.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have participated in brainstorming sessions seeking to identify the impact of various proposals on a specific issue.
 C. I have led a workgroup charged with determining the most viable option for resolving a matter, and made a formal recommendation to superiors.
 D. I have developed and presented written analyses of the predicted impact on the organization at the national level of any of multiple alternative proposals, including justification for a recommended course of action.
5. Indicate the extent of your experience evaluating work processes and overall business practices.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have evaluated work processes and business practices and have made recommendations to improve their effectiveness.
 C. I have developed measurements used to evaluate the effectiveness of work processes or business practices, and have monitored the use of these measurements.
 D. I have led the development of measurements used to evaluate work processes or business practices. The measurements implemented resulted in an improvement of the work processes or business practices.
6. Indicate the extent of your experience in developing and documenting plans for an acquisition planning effort.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. Under the close guidance of others, I have developed short-range plans for an acquisition effort (for example, set timelines, established milestones, identified needed resources).
 C. I have participated in the development and documentation of both short- and long-range plans for an acquisition effort (for example, set timelines, established milestones, identified needed resources).
 D. I have overseen the development and documentation of plans for an acquisition effort that were broad in scope or were complex, involving multiple entities.
7. Indicate the extent of your experience overseeing the overall planning, development, direction, and execution of an acquisition program.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. Under the close guidance of others, I have participated in the planning, development, direction, and execution of an acquisition program.
 C. I have independently overseen the overall planning, direction, and execution of an acquisition program.
 D. I have independently overseen the overall planning, development, direction, and execution of a major agency or organization acquisition program.
 E. I have extensive experience overseeing the overall planning, development, direction, and execution of major agency or organization acquisition programs of national scope and impact.
8. Select the choice which best describes your experience in responding to new information, changing conditions, or unexpected obstacles.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have adapted to minor or temporary changes affecting my own assignments or work schedule by rescheduling work or refocusing my efforts.
 C. I have rearranged some priorities and rescheduled a significant amount of work to accommodate changes in resources or goals. I have recommended new methods in situations in which established procedures were unavailable or inapplicable.
 D. I have rearranged virtually all work priorities and schedules to accommodate sudden major changes, problems, or setbacks. I have chosen or developed new methods in situations in which established procedures were unavailable or inapplicable.
9. Indicate the extent of your experience in conducting analyses of cost, schedule, and performance trade-offs to help minimize life cycle cost (LCC).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. Under the close guidance of others, I have conducted analyses of cost, schedule, and performance trade-offs.
 C. I have participated in conducting analyses of cost, schedule, and performance trade-offs with the goal of minimizing life cycle cost (LCC).
 D. I have independently conducted analyses of cost, schedule, and performance trade-offs to help minimize life cycle cost (LCC).
 E. I have held ultimate responsibility for reducing life cycle cost (LCC) by conducting analyses of cost, schedule, and performance trade-offs. Programs for which I was responsible made significant gains as a result of implementing process improvements based on my analyses.
10. Do you have experience providing products and services that meet customers' needs within approved prerequisites (budget, cost, schedule, and performance criteria).

 A. YES
 B. NO
11. Indicate the extent of your experience in reporting to higher level officials on acquisition program status or technical problems requiring resolution.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have reported primarily to my immediate supervisor, either formally or informally, on acquisition program status or technical problems requiring resolution.
 C. I have provided formal briefings to higher level officials in the organization regarding acquisition program status or technical problems requiring resolution.
 D. I have given formal written reports and oral briefings to higher level officials both within and outside my organization regarding acquisition program status or technical problems requiring resolution.
12. Indicate the extent of your experience performing technical reviews and configuration audits.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have been a part of a team tasked with performing technical reviews and configuration audits.
 C. I have independently performed technical reviews and configuration audits to control the evolving configuration of an acquired system.
 D. I have extensive experience continually performing technical reviews and configuration audits to control the evolving configuration of an acquired system. I have provided recommendations to leadership and my recommendations for changes have been implemented.
13. Indicate the extent to which you have advised stakeholders on the execution of acquisition program policies to achieve program goals and objectives.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have advised employees, supervisors, and managers on the execution of new acquisition program policies or the application of a policy to a specific acquisition program.
 C. I have provided expert-level advice to senior leadership within and outside my organization on the execution of acquisition program policies to achieve acquisition program goals and objectives.
14. Indicate the extent of your experience coordinating and influencing procurement planning sessions and advanced acquisition planning initiatives.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have been a part of a team tasked with coordinating procurement planning sessions and advanced acquisition planning initiatives.
 C. I have independently coordinated and influenced procurement planning sessions and advanced acquisition planning initiatives.
 D. I have extensive experience coordinating and influencing procurement planning sessions and advanced acquisition planning initiatives which have ensured priority requirements were identified and awarded in a timely manner.
15. Do you have experience directing a variety of comprehensive studies and detailed analyses of complex functions and processes with subcontractors and other major asset acquisition program mangers.

 A. YES
 B. NO
16. Indicate the extent of your experience in building support for ideas and initiatives with key stakeholders inside and outside the organization.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had limited experience in building support for ideas and initiatives with key stakeholders inside and outside the organization gained by seeking support for ideas or initiatives under close guidance.
 C. I have sought support for ideas and initiatives from key internal and external stakeholders with the result that these ideas/initiatives have been included in major recommendations made by others.
 D. I have analyzed the pros and cons of significant ideas/initiatives and clearly communicated these options to key internal and external stakeholders with the result that the ideas/initiatives were successfully implemented.
17. Have you written standard operating procedures (SOPs) or agency policies.

 A. YES
 B. NO
18. Select the choice which best describes your ability to communicate with all levels of managers, staff members, and outside groups.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have communicated with other staff members and managers in the routine performance of my duties.
 C. I have conducted meetings with and provided training for staff members or outside groups.
 D. I have provided briefings within my own organization or to external groups or organizations.
 E. I have represented a program or organization in high-level conferences or meetings, or I have acted as a liaison to external groups or organizations.
19. Indicate the extent of your experience in expressing facts and ideas in writing in a clear, convincing, and organized manner.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written short responses to routine requests for information.
 C. I have written portions of reports, information papers, and other documents.
 D. I have independently composed written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, and other complete documents based on study findings and results of analyses.
 E. I have independently composed written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, documents that recommend changes to programs and procedures for senior management, and other complete documents based on study findings and results of analyses, and I have edited reports, documents, records, or other materials completed by lower-level employees or peers to verify completeness, correctness, and consistency.
20. Indicate the extent to which you have developed and maintained effective relationships (liaison) with individuals internal and external to your work group, office, and organization.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have maintained relationships with individuals in my work group or office, primarily in the completion of my regular job duties or in my response to specific inquiries.
 C. I have maintained relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group and office to exchange information, resolve problems, or participate in joint task forces/teams.
 D. I have developed and maintained numerous long-term relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group, office, and organization to exchange information, resolve problems, and execute joint task force/team projects.
21. Select the choice which best describes your experience managing acquisition portfolios.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had some experience managing acquisition portfolios (for example, 10 to 50 acquisitions).
 C. I have significant experience managing acquisition portfolios (for example, 51 to 100 acquisitions).
 D. I have extensive experience managing acquisition portfolios (for example, over 100 acquisitions).
22. Indicate the extent of your experience utilizing acquisition sources (for example, strategic sourcing, 8A, HubZone, DHS, GSA or DHS Schedules).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had limited experience in utilizing acquisition sources (for example, sole, strategic, 8A).
 C. I have personally utilized several acquisition sources (for example, sole, strategic, 8A).
 D. I have extensive experience utilizing a variety of acquisition sources (for example, strategic sourcing, 8A, HubZone, DHS, GSA or DHS Schedules) and determining the appropriate source to benefit the program.
23. Indicate the extent of your experience reviewing portfolios for efficiencies.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted with the review of portfolios to determine efficiencies.
 C. I have independently reviewed portfolios to determine efficiencies and made recommendations resulting in the realization of some savings.
 D. I have reviewed portfolios to determine efficiencies and implemented changes resulting in the realization of major savings ($500K or more).
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected