Position Title
Physical Therapy Assistant
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTA-12806820-26-LP Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 15, 2025 to Thursday, October 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
6
7
8


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
The following questions are related to the basic qualifications for this vacancy. Please respond to each question by selecting A for "Yes" or B for "No".


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you proficient in written and spoken English? Candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by 38 U.S.C. ? 7403(f)

 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess one of the following?

 Associate degree from an accredited community college, junior college, college or university in a physical therapy assistant education program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education; (Transcripts must be submitted with your application)
 Graduate of foreign physical therapy assistant degree programs that meet the educational requirement and have successfully passed the National Physical Therapy Exam (NPTE) for PTAs; (Transcripts/Certifications must be submitted with your application)
 Graduate of military physical therapy assistant programs that meet the educational requirement and have successfully passed the NPTE for PTAs; (Transcripts/Certifications must be submitted with your application)
 None of these.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you possess a current, full, active and unrestricted license as a Physical Therapy Assistant in a State, Territory or Commonwealth (i.e. Puerto Rico) of the United States, or District of Columbia? (Copy of license or certification must be submitted with application)

 Yes
 No


GRADE REQUIREMENTS: In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met when determining the grade of candidates.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
GS-5 Experience: None beyond the basic requirements

.Do you meet those requirements?

 Yes
 No


5.
GS-6 - Experience: One year of creditable experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-05.In addition to the basic requirements, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs(

1) Knowledge of evidence based physical therapy practice.
2) Ability to perform physical therapy data collection and use of objective measures in order to carry out patient plan of care.
3) Ability to modify treatment approaches, within the scope of the established treatment plans, to reflect patients' changing needs.
4) Skill in promoting physical therapy services by providing training and interventions within the assigned areas.

Do you meet those requirements?

 Yes
 No


6.
GS-7 -Experience: One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade GS-06.

In addition to the basic requirements, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:

(a) Ability to perform in depth chart review to implement treatment plans.
(b) Ability to independently use objective measures to assess progress, in accordance with the plan of care for complex patient cases.
(c) Knowledge of contemporary physical therapy practice.
(d) Ability to consult with the PT to assess progress, modify treatment and set discharge plan.

Do you meet those requirements?

 Yes
 No


7.
GS-08 EXPERIENCE: Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level? Creditable experience includes but not limited to: Physical Therapy Assistants (PTAs) receive ongoing guidance from more experienced staff members and receive general direction by the treating Physical Therapist (PT). PTAs draw upon a broad base of practical and experiential knowledge in order to assist the PT in reaching pre-determined patient goals. PTAs work independently but still under the general direction of PTs. They observe patients' ability to perform specified tasks in order to provide ongoing assessment of information on patients' physical and functional status. PTAs work with the physical therapy staff to assess progress, modify treatment and set discharge plan. They provide clinical direction for PTA students.

AND-

In addition to meeting the basic requirements, the Candidates must also demonstrate all of the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) below:

(a) Ability to independently implement treatment plan using knowledge of techniques related to the patient's disability and needs.

(b) Ability to independently provide varied and multifaceted physical therapy interventions based on the established care plan (e.g., therapeutic exercise, balance, body mechanics, flexibility, strength, gait training, neuromotor development, physical agents, functional training, etc.).

(c) Knowledge of physical therapy data collection and assessment techniques in order to perform specific interventions and to monitor and capture progress of the patient/client.

(d) Ability to instruct patient on varied interventions to provide materials to enhance compliance with home programs.

(e) Ability to modify treatment techniques based on the learning needs and perceptions of the patient.

(f) Ability to identify critical changes (e.g. vital signs, pain, mobility and alertness) in patient conditions to determine their medical and functional status.

(g) Ability to work with PTs and other interdisciplinary healthcare team members to evaluate patient information for planning, modifying and coordinating treatment programs and discharge planning.

Do you meet the minimum requirements of the GS-08 grade level AND demonstrate all of these Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs)?

 Yes
 No


8.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙