Position Title
SUPPLY TECH
Agency
Naval Supply Systems Command
Announcement Number
DE-12786432-25-CAF Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 22, 2025 to Tuesday, August 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you an active duty service member with a statement of service showing that you expect to be honorably discharged or released from the armed forces under honorable conditions no later than 120 days after submitting your application? Please note: you will be ineligible for consideration if your statement of service is not submitted with your application or it shows an expected discharge or release date greater than 120 days from the date of the submission of the certification.

You are required to submit a statement of service printed on command letterhead and signed by the command. The statement of service must provide the branch of service, rate/rank, all dates of service, the expected date of discharge and anticipated character of service (e.g., Honorable, General, etc.).  Veterans should upload their DD-214 once they receive it upon separation.  

Failure to provide supporting documentation will result in a rating of ineligible. For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a retired civil service federal employee seeking reemployment?

If yes, you are required to submit a copy of your retirement SF-50 (or equivalent).

The Department of Defense (DoD) and Department of Navy (DON) policy on employment of annuitants will be used in determining eligibility of annuitants. Annuitants reemployed in the Department of Defense receive full annuity and salary upon appointment. They are not eligible for retirement contributions, to participate in the Thrift Savings Plan, nor to a supplemental or re-determined annuity for the reemployment period. Discontinued service retirement annuitants (i.e. retired under section 8336(d)(1) or 8416(b)(1)(A) of title 5, United States Code) appointed to the Department of Defense may elect to be subject to retirement provisions of the new appointment, as appropriate.

Policy information may be found at: http://www.secnav.navy.mil/donhr/Documents/CivilianJobs/FedCivAnnuitants.pdf

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Where did you hear about this job? We know you saw this announcement on USAJOBS, but did you hear about it somewhere else first?

Please tell us where you first heard about this job.
--Select-- 
--Select--
National Call to Maritime Service/Fleet Week
Department of the Navy (DON) Agency website/internet
Email from the Department of the Navy
LinkedIn
CareerBuilder.com
Indeed.com
Monster.com
Facebook
X (Formerly known as Twitter)
USAJOBS website
Job Supervisor
A Navy/Marine Corps employee, not the position supervisor
Friend or Family Member, not a Navy/Marine Corps employee
Contract employee
College/University Career Placement Office
College Alumni
Employment Office
Newspaper Advertisement
Job Career Fair
American Association of People with Disabilities
National Association of Asian American Professionals
2024 Federal Interagency Military Spouse Career Expo
2. Are you a current or former political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316 (relating to the Executive Schedule)?
OR
Are you a current or former Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who serves/served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch?
OR
Are you a current or former non-career SES, Limited Term SES, or Limited Emergency SES in the Executive Branch?
OR
Are you a current or former political appointee in the Executive Branch?

The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. A recent or former political appointee is defined as someone who held a political appointment covered by OPM's policy within the previous 5-year period. If you are currently employed, or have been employed within the last 5 years, in any one of the categories above, you must disclose this information. Failure to disclose this information could result in disciplinary action including removal from Federal Service.

For more information see https://www.chcoc.gov/content/political-appointees-and-career-civil-service-positions-4 and https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/oversight-activities/faqs/

If you answer Yes to this question, you must provide your current or past SF50 for the political appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. I am willing and able to travel away from my duty location.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a Secret security clearance.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I am willing and able to accept a "Mission Essential" position. This entails continued performance of duties and responsibilities designated as mission essential functions of an activity.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I am willing and able to submit to a pre-employment physical exam prior to employment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I am willing and able to use protective clothing and gear and observe safety precautions.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. I am willing and able to work an uncommon tour of duty (may include weekend, nights, overtime, or holidays).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. Please select one response that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for a GS-2005-06, Supply Technician.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-05) or pay band in the federal service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector performing supply support work necessary to ensure the effective operation of ongoing supply activities utilizing the knowledge of supply operations and program requirements and the ability to apply established supply policies, day-to-day servicing techniques, and regulations. Examples of specialized experience may include: 1) Assists in conducting physical inventory checks for various programs to resolve discrepancies. 2) Receives and reviews supply documentation. 3) Compares lists of customers' supply requests against stock records for availability of supplies/parts. 4) Knowledge of automated supply systems to conduct standard supply actions. 5) Assists in coordinating transportation of supply/ materials with customers to assure no delays or discrepancies.
 B. I do not have the specialized experience described above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. Do you certify that all of your responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate; and do you accept that if your supporting documentation does not support one or more of your responses to the questionnaire that your application may be rated lower or you may be removed from further consideration?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected