Position Title
Building Repairman Supervisor II
Agency
Bureau of Reclamation
Announcement Number
BOR-LCB-25-IMP-12769022-JRS Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 23, 2025 to Tuesday, July 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please read the following eligibility questions carefully. If you do not meet any of the eligibilities, you will not be considered for this position.
1. Current Bureau of Reclamation Employee (Competitive)

To claim Competitive eligibility as a Current Bureau of Reclamation employee, please confirm:

You currently hold a position at a grade level (or equivalent) that is at or below the advertised full performance level for this position.
(Trades Positions) You currently hold a position at a pay rate that is at or below the advertised full performance level for this position.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) representing your permanent, competitive status including:
Career or Career-Conditional status (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND
Competitive Service status (Position Occupied field is 1). 
In addition to submitting your most recent SF-50, if you have held a higher grade level on a permanent basis please submit a copy of SF-50, which documents the highest grade you have held on a permanent basis. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.

Are you a current, permanent Bureau of Reclamation employee applying for competitive Promotion?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Current Bureau of Reclamation Employee (Reassignment, Change to Lower Grade, Re-Promotion)

To claim Non-Competitive eligibility as a Current Bureau of Reclamation employee, please confirm you are applying to be considered for one of the following:
Reassignment: You currently hold the same grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being advertised.
Change to Lower Grade: You currently hold a higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential than the position being advertised.
Re-Promotion: You have previously held the same grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being advertised.
Trades Positions: You currently hold or have previously held a position at the same or higher rate of pay as the position being advertised. 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) representing your permanent, competitive status including:
Career or Career-Conditional status (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND
Competitive Service status (Position Occupied field is 1). 
In addition to submitting your most recent SF-50, if you have held a higher grade level on a permanent basis please submit a copy of SF-50, which documents the highest grade you have held on a permanent basis. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.

Are you a current, permanent Bureau of Reclamation employee applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change to Lower Grade or Re-Promotion?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Certificates of Eligible Applicants for this position may be shared with other Federal agencies at their request. This may include other Offices within the Bureau of Reclamation, other Bureaus within the Department of the Interior, and/or other Federal agencies. If your information is shared with another office/bureau/agency, you will be notified. Do you authorize the sharing of your information with other Federal agencies? If you respond "No" to this question, your information will not be shared and you will not be considered for employment by the requesting agency.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current Career or Career Conditional Bureau of Reclamation employee within the local commuting area (50 mile radius) of Hoover Dam, located in Clark County, NV?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Have you ever permanently held, as a Federal civilian employee, a per hour salary that is equal to or higher than the per hour salary listed in this vacancy?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Please list the position title, series, per hour salary, the organization, and the dates (mm/yy to mm/yy) you permanently held this position.
You WILL NOT be considered for this announcement if you fail to submit ALL the applicable required documentation in the announcement (i.e. transcripts,DD-214's, SF-15, VA letter, SF-50's, PE Registration, etc.) by the CLOSING DATE of this announcement. Please call the Human Resources Office phone number listed on this announcement for clarification or further information.
5. My performance is at an acceptable level and I am not serving under a Notice of Opportunity to Demonstrate Acceptable Performance (NODAP).
 A. Yes
 B. No
To verify your claimed eligibility to apply for this position vacancy, you must submit all supporting documentations outlined in the Required Documents section of this job announcement.
6. I understand that if I am a current or former federal employee, I must submit a copy of my most recent performance appraisal OR a statement of why the appraisal is not available or my application will be marked as incomplete.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. I understand this is NOT a remote position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Do you currently possess a valid driver's license?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Provide your driver's license number, state in which issued, and expiration date of license. (limit 100 characters)
10. I understand that I must limit my resume to no more than 2 pages, if more than 2 pages are submitted, I understand only the first 2 pages will be reviewed to determine my eligibility/qualifications. I understand that if my resume does not clearly reflect the experience as noted in the vacancy announcement within the first 2 pages it will be marked as ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
If selected, you will be subject to an initial suitability review, determined by a background investigation.
1. If selected, you are required to obtain and successfully pass a pre-employment physical examination by a licensed physician certifying to your ability to perform the duties of the position. This is not required if a comparable examination was required for placement in your current position and was completed within the last year; however, verifiable documentation of a comparable physical is required. Periodic (annual or biennial) physical examinations are required to be successfully passed for continued employment. Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical as described above as part of your employment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. This position is designated as a Non-Sensitive/Moderate Risk position. It requires a fully completed and favorably adjudicated Public Trust Suitability Background Investigation (T2S or T2RS or equivalent) that is current (within the last 5 years). This is a condition of employment.

Are you willing to undergo a comprehensive background investigation which includes, but is not limited to, contact with all references, employers, co-workers, personal associates, and a review of your driving record, credit history, criminal history, and military service?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with Reclamation, Lower Colorado Basin. Your application for the position of Building Repairman Supervisor II will be evaluated based on your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position.

Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents. You must be clear when describing your experience, we may not make assumptions in determining qualifications. Please limit your resume to no more than 2 pages. If more than 2 pages are submitted, only the first 2 pages will be reviewed to determine your eligibility/qualifications. If your resume does not clearly reflect the experience as noted in the vacancy announcement, your application will be marked as ineligible.

You WILL NOT be considered for this announcement if you fail to submit ALL the applicable required documentation listed under the "How to Apply" tab by the CLOSING DATE of this announcement. Current/Former federal employees that fail to submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal will have their application marked as incomplete.
1. Select the response that best describes your experience to lead or supervise trade and craft employees in performing operations or maintenance tasks in a hydroelectric or industrial facility. You must be a fully skilled journeyman in at least one of the following trades: Carpentry, HVAC, Masonry, Painting, or Electrical - this experience must clearly be reflected on your resume, or your application will be marked as not qualified.
 A. I have served as a leader over craft/trade workers on a regular basis in the operation and maintenance of a hydroelectric power facility. I provided work assignments, direction, and reviewed work in progress and upon completion.
 B. I have served as a leader over craft/trade workers on a regular basis in the operation and maintenance of an industrial facility. I provided work assignments, direction, and reviewed work in progress and upon completion.
 C. I have led craft/trade workers on operation and maintenance projects. I provided technical guidance and direction in performing tasks.
 D. I have experience training helpers, apprentices, or intermediate workers. I interpret instructions and explain how to do the work.
 E. None of the above.
2. SHORT ANSWER: Follow up to previous question: indicate 1) the specific trade you are considered a journeyman in, AND 2) name and location of the hydroelectric power generating facility, military branch OR commercial power producing facility, OR length of apprenticeship and location as listed in your resume.

Note:  Failure to address this question OR typing in "see resume" will result in your application being marked as incomplete.

3. Select the response that best describes your level of experience leading or supervising trade and craft employees in performing operations or maintenance tasks in a hydroelectric or industrial facility.
 A. I have served as a leader over craft/trade workers on a regular basis in the operation and maintenance of a hydroelectric power facility. I provided work assignments, direction, and reviewed work in progress and upon completion.
 B. I have served as a leader over craft/trade workers on a regular basis in the operation and maintenance of an industrial facility. I provided work assignments, direction, and reviewed work in progress and upon completion.
 C. I have led craft/trade workers on operation and maintenance projects. I provided technical guidance and direction in performing tasks.
 D. I have experience training helpers, apprentices, or intermediate workers. I interpret instructions and explain how to do the work.
 E. None of the above.
4. Select the response that best describes your ability to retain composure under stressful situations when dealing with a variety of people.

 A. I have served in a various position that required me to maintain composure and diplomacy in stressful situations dealing with a variety of people who were disgruntled, expressed opposing viewpoints and objectives, and/or were aggressive or hostile. I have independently and successfully diffused such situations to convey information, clarify concerns, and gain agreement or understanding of issues that enabled further discussion or action.
 B. I have served in a position that required me to remain calm when dealing with people whose viewpoints or objectives differed from mine (or my organization). I was able to respond successfully without intervention or review by my supervisor.
 C. I have had limited experience in handling stressful situations which dealt with a variety of people. When such situations have occurred, I received assistance by a senior employee or my supervisor.
 D. None of the above.
5. Select the response(s) that reflect your experience motivating, leading, and providing structure to successfully complete work projects.

 A. Administered consequences, held others accountable and enforced program policies and standards in the workplace.
 B. Coordinated efforts to adjust work activities in situations where frequent changes, delays or unexpected events arose that caused major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments.
 C. Facilitated the resolution of competing or conflicting interests among coworkers whose cooperation was essential to the success of a project.
 D. Persuaded others to adopt new or existing methods, procedures, or techniques to accomplish their work.
 E. Provided direction, guidance, or instruction to members of inter-disciplinary teams charged with carrying out a technical project.
 F. Used consensus-building techniques to persuade representatives of groups that held opposing views or positions, to reach agreement on important issues.
 G. Diffused confrontational events involving people who were difficult, hostile, or distressed.
 H. None of the above.
6. Select the response(s) that describe the lead or supervisory duties you have performed on a regular/recurring basis.

 A. Planned work to be accomplished by subordinates, set, and adjusted priorities, and prepared schedules for completion of work.
 B. Assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees.
 C. Developed performance standards and evaluated work performance of subordinates.
 D. Given advice, counsel, or instruction to employees on both work and administrative matters.
 E. Interviewed candidates for positions in the unit, and recommended/selected for appointment, promotion, or reassignment.
 F. Heard and resolved complaints from employees.
 G. Effected disciplinary measures on employees for conduct or performance issues.
 H. Identified developmental and training needs of employees based on organizational goals and budget constraints.
 I. Rewarded employees for work accomplishments.
 J. Complied with diversity and equal employment opportunity obligations.
 K. Used formal mediation techniques to resolve complaints.
 L. Resolved union issues from employees covered under a labor-management agreement.
 M. Performed onsite inspections for quality, quantity of work, and solve problems that may arise during the assignment.
 N. None of the above.
7. Select the response that best describes your knowledge and experience communicating complex and/or controversial issues to coworkers and/or contractor staff in a non-adversarial, problem-solving manner.

 A. I have experience in communicating complex and/or controversial issues to coworkers and/or contractor staff in a non-adversarial, problem-solving manner (including federal and non-federal peers, subordinates, supervisors, contractors, and partners).
 B. I have experience in communicating complex and/or controversial issues to coworkers and/or contractor staff in a non-adversarial, problem-solving manner (including federal and non-federal peers, subordinates, supervisors, contractors, and partners), as a team leader or senior member of a team.
 C. I have experience communicating complex and/or controversial issues to coworkers in a non-adversarial, problem-solving manner.
 D. I have experience as part of a team communicating complex and/or controversial issues to coworkers in a non-adversarial, problem-solving manner.
 E. None of the above.
8. Select the response(s) that describe the type(s) of staff you have led as a regular part of your duties.

 A. Electrical
 B. Mechanical
 C. Carpentry
 D. Heating, Ventilation, Cooling
 E. Painting
 F. Plumbing
 G. Welding
 H. Masonry
 I. Rigging loads for crane lifts
 J. None of the above
9. Select the trades in which you have work experience:

 A. Electrical
 B. Mechanical
 C. Carpentry
 D. Heating, Ventilation, Cooling
 E. Painting
 F. Welding
 G. Masonry
 H. Rigging loads for crane lifts
 I. None of the above
10. Select the answer that describes your level of experience, education, or training in meeting predefined deadlines for assigned work tasks.

 A. Completed a high volume of accurate, timely and detailed maintenance assignments under short deadlines.
 B. Completed accurate, timely and detailed maintenance assignments under short deadlines.
 C. Completed detailed maintenance assignments that required a high level of effort under regular or recurring deadlines.
 D. Completed detailed maintenance assignments under regular or recurring deadlines.
 E. Completed less complex maintenance assignments under regular or recurring deadlines.
 F. Completed detailed maintenance assignments that required accuracy under no set deadlines.
 G. None of the above.
11. From the following list, select all the safety standards, guidelines, and/or procedures for which you have experience, education, or training.

 A. Job Hazard Analysis (JHA)
 B. Hazardous Energy Control Program (HECP)
 C. Hearing Conservation
 D. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)
 E. Respiratory Protection
 F. Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus (SCBA)
 G. Confined Space work and rescue
 H. Hazardous Communications/MSDS
 I. Spill Prevention
 J. Fire Extinguishers
 K. Infectious Control (Blood borne Pathogens)
 L. Personal Fall Protection
 M. Cardio-Pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR)
 N. First Aid
 O. Hazardous Waste
 P. Asbestos Awareness
 Q. Reclamation Safety & Health Standards (RSHS)
 R. OSHA Safety Standards
 S. None of the above
12. Select the response that best describes your experience with safe clearance (lock out/tag out) procedures.

 A. I have been trained and placed/received safe clearances using lock out\tag out procedures.
 B. I have been trained and performed work under lock out\tag out safe clearance procedures.
 C. I have performed placing/receiving clearances on occasion.
 D. I have performed placing/receiving clearance as a regular part of my job I have no experience with safe clearance procedures.
 E. I have no experience with safe clearance procedures.
13. Select the response that best describes your level of experience in performing maintenance and repair work on buildings and facilities.

 A. I have no experience in this area.
 B. I have related experience that demonstrates my ability to perform maintenance and repair work on buildings and facilities.
 C. I have worked as a helper to journeyman level workers performing maintenance and repair to buildings or facilities. I have performed routine tasks independently and have assisted on complex projects that involved most of the following areas: carpentry, painting, plumbing, electrical, masonry, and repair to windows and doors.
 D. I have worked as a helper to journeyman level workers performing maintenance and repair to buildings or facilities. I have performed routine tasks independently and have assisted on complex projects that involved most of the following areas: carpentry, painting, plumbing, electrical, masonry, and repair to windows and doors.
 E. I am highly skilled at performing a variety of maintenance and repair work on buildings and facilities. My experience demonstrates skill in all the following areas: carpentry, painting, plumbing, electrical, masonry, and repair to windows and doors. I have completed assigned tasks independently and routinely and have carried them out successfully.
 F. I am a highly skilled at performing the full range of maintenance and repair work on buildings and facilities. In addition to training or supervising others, I have independently planned and completed multi-varied work projects that include new construction, remodeling, alterations, extensive repair, and routine maintenance. I have extensive experience that demonstrates my high skill level in carpentry, painting, plumbing, electrical, masonry, and compliance with the Uniform Building Code.
14. Select the response that best describes your experience selecting required materials, based on judgment and experience, for various maintenance activities.

 A. I have used materials for maintenance activities that were selected for me.
 B. I have selected materials for various maintenance activities based on specifications.
 C. I have selected materials for various maintenance activities based on my own judgment and experience.
 D. I have selected and substituted materials properly for various maintenance activities based on my own judgment and experience.
 E. I have been consulted by others for advice on the selection, substitution, and use of materials for various maintenance activities.
 F. I have no experience selecting materials for maintenance activities.
15. Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience in preparing written documents in a work situation.

 A. I have written documents that serve as policy or formal guidelines for my organization.
 B. I have written technical reports based upon research, analysis, and data collection that summarizes findings and make recommendations to inform or guide others in my organization.
 C. I have written business letters to other organizations or customers to communicate information of a complex or controversial nature.
 D. I have written business letters to other organizations or customers to inform them of routine program activities or transmit documents.
 E. None of the above.
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
16. Select the response that best describes your level of experience, education, or training in using blueprints, drawings, and manufacturer's instructions to troubleshoot and repair mechanical equipment.

 A. I know little or nothing about this.
 B. I have had study or training in this.
 C. I have used my knowledge or ability, but I have been closely supervised.
 D. I have used my knowledge or ability on my own, under normal supervision.
 E. I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs.
17. Select the response that best describes your level of experience, education, or training in using equipment maintenance manuals and other technical data to develop preventative maintenance procedures and schedules for mechanical equipment.

 A. I have used equipment maintenance manuals and other technical data to develop preventative maintenance procedures and schedules for mechanical equipment in a hydropower facility. I am highly skilled at performing these functions. I have performed them independently and routinely.
 B. I have used equipment maintenance manuals and other technical data to develop preventative maintenance procedures and schedules for mechanical equipment in a powerplant facility.
 C. I have used equipment maintenance manuals and other technical data to develop preventative maintenance procedures and schedules for mechanical equipment in an industrial maintenance facility.
 D. I have received post high school education or formal training in these functions, but I have not performed them on the job.
 E. None of the above.
18. I am applying as a current Bureau of Reclamation Lower Colorado Dams Office Employee?

 A. Yes, I am applying as a current Bureau of Reclamation Lower Colorado Dams Office employee and acknowledge I must upload a copy of my most recent performance appraisal or a written statement as to why it is not available. I understand failure to do so will result in my application being marked as incomplete.
 B. No, I am not applying as a current Bureau of Reclamation Lower Colorado Dams Office employee and not required to upload my most recent performance appraisal or a written statement with my application.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
19. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected