Position Title
Field Operation Resource Specialist
Agency
Food Safety and Inspection Service
Announcement Number
FSIS-25-MMP-12800547-JG Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 12, 2025 to Thursday, September 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. Your answers will be used to determine your eligibility to apply to this job opportunity announcement. You will be considered under the eligibility option(s) to which you answer YES. Select YES to all eligibility options for which you want to be considered. If you respond NO to meeting the criteria for all the eligibilities, you will not be considered for the position(s) under this announcement.

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration for EACH selected eligibility. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration.
1.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current or former permanent Farm Service Agency County employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current USDA employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a USDA employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment AND you have held or currently hold a position on a permanent basis in the competitive service with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Springdale, AR
 B. Denver, CO
 C. Atlanta, GA
 D. Lombard, IL
 E. Des Moines, IA
 F. Raleigh, NC
 G. Philadelphia, PA
 H. Dallas, TX
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING CAREFULLY. Applicants will be referred to all grade levels at or above the one selected for which they are qualified. Not selecting the lowest grade announced as your Lowest Acceptable Grade could limit your consideration for referral if, after review of your application, resume, and supporting documents, you are deemed not qualified for your selected Lowest Acceptable Grade. Selecting the lowest grade announced as your Lowest Acceptable Grade will not limit your consideration at higher grades.
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
7
9
3. I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. DOCUMENT UPLOADS - I understand that each document uploaded must be less than 5MB and in one of the following document formats: GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, PDF, TXT, or Word (.DOC or .DOCX). For more information see the "How to Apply" portion of the vacancy announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. How did you learn about this FSIS position? Please select all that apply.
 A. LinkedIn
 B. Social Media (such as Facebook, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Job Finder Site (such as Indeed, Monster, etc.)
 D. Job Board from School, College, University, or Alumni Organization (e.g., Handshake, Symplicity, 12Twenty, Other)
 E. Local Billboard
 F. FSIS-Sponsored Job Fair, Career Fair, or Information Session/Event
 G. School-Sponsored Job Fair, Career Fair, or Information Session/Event Sponsored by a School, College, University, or Alumni Organization
 H. FSIS Employee
 I. USDA Employee
 J. Friend, Family Member, or non-FSIS or non-USDA Coworker
 K. USAJobs Search
 L. Other
7. Please share any additional details about how you learned about this position, especially if you selected "Other" in the previous question. If nothing to add, enter "N/A".
8. Potential Variation in Shift, Duty Location, and Amount of Travel:

Vacancy shift, duty location, and amount of travel may be frequent. I am willing to accept a position that includes the following (select all that apply):
 A. 1st Shift
 B. 2nd Shift
 C. 3rd Shift
 D. Rotating Shifts
 E. Varying shifts with frequent travel (50%-75% of the time)
 F. Varying shifts with very frequent travel (76% or more of the time)
9. 2-PAGE LIMIT ACKNOWLEDGEMENT - I understand that there is a 2-page limit on resume length for the initial qualification determination. If my resume is longer than two pages, only the first two pages will be reviewed to determine if I qualify.

For more information on what to include in your resume, see the "Required Documents" section of the vacancy announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. I have at least 52 weeks of time-in-grade (or equivalent) at the GS-5 level.

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I have at least 52 weeks of specialized experience at the GS-5 level (or equivalent) as described in the vacancy announcement under the "qualifications" tab, and this experience is clearly described and outlined in my resume.

 A. I have completed one year of full-time specialized experience at the GS-5 grade level.
 B. I have one full year of graduate level education.
 C. I meet the requirements for superior academic achievement in a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree.
 D. I do not meet the above requirements
3. I have at least 52 weeks of time-in-grade (or equivalent) at the GS-7 level.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I have at least 52 weeks of specialized experience at the GS-7 level (or equivalent) as described in the vacancy announcement under the "qualifications" tab, and this experience is clearly described and outlined in my resume.

 A. I have one full year of full-time specialized experience at the GS-7 grade level
 B. I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree; or two full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree; or LL.B. or J.D., if related.
 C. I do not meet the above requirements
5. I have experience performing the following tasks:
 A. Composing electronic messages
 B. Composing memorandums or documents
 C. Creating reports
 D. Reviewing correspondence for accuracy of information
 E. Editing documents for correct grammar and punctuation
 F. Responding to official correspondence
 G. None of the above
6. Please select the best response that describes your experience explaining programs or policies in writing to individuals or groups to enhance understanding of agency objectives.
 A. I have experience providing technical advice or assistance to managers regarding staffing and merit promotion issues such as hiring authorities or internal placement.
 B. I have education which provided me knowledge of staffing and merit promotion principles, policies, rules and regulations.
 C. I have experience responding in writing to individuals on non-technical staffing issues.
 D. I have no experience in staffing and merit promotion principles, policies, rules and regulations.
7. Please select the answer that most closely describes your experience analyzing program requirements to determine manpower of resource needs.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised the performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
8. Within my professional area of expertise, I have:
 A. Identified a trend indicating a new problem area or focus.
 B. Developed a new/unique solution for a departmental/functional problem.
 C. Resolved a crisis related to an unforeseen problem.
 D. None of the above
9. I have work experience where one of my primary responsibilities was to:
 A. Evaluate workforce utilization
 B. Determine workload distribution
 C. Assess hiring needs
 D. Evaluate overtime needs
 E. None of the above
10. I have work experience where one of my primary responsibilities was to:
 A. Develop work schedules
 B. Sequence tasks
 C. Identify available resources
 D. Decide among competing priorities
 E. Develop contingency plans
 F. Follow up on or evaluate work progress
 G. None of the above
11. I have experience with the following:
 A. Entering personnel data into a database
 B. Maintaining personnel rosters
 C. Analyzing workforce or resource requirements
 D. Recommending personnel levels for office coverage
 E. Initiating recruitment actions
 F. None of the above
12. I have experience with the following:
 A. Providing guidance on travel related matters
 B. Submitting travel authorizations
 C. Submitting travel vouchers
 D. Auditing travel authorizations submitted by others
 E. Auditing travel vouchers submitted by others
 F. Coordinating travel advances
 G. Reconciling travel documents or advances
 H. None of the above
13. I have experience with the following tasks:
 A. Monitoring time and attendance reports
 B. Developing leave schedules
 C. Maintaining calendars or schedules
 D. Recommending training activities
 E. Coordinating training activities
 F. None of the above
14. Which of the following best describes how you have provided customer service to internal and/or external customers?
 A. I have no experience in this area.
 B. I have responded to customer requests in a timely manner.
 C. I have implemented processes to help serve customers more effectively.
 D. I have worked with customers to develop realistic objectives or timeframes.
 E. I have referred customers to appropriate departments or people for assistance.
15. I have worked on a project where I have:
 A. Identified the needs of internal customers.
 B. Developed an innovative solution for meeting internal clients' needs.
 C. Implemented an innovative solution to meeting internal clients' needs.
 D. Evaluated the effectiveness of a solution.
 E. None of the above.
16. In my current and previous work roles, I have contributed value to the organization/function by:
 A. Decreasing errors in deliverables
 B. Minimizing the cost of services
 C. Increasing customer satisfaction
 D. None of the above
17. My most recent supervisor would say my ability to clearly communicate orally so others understand the information I am conveying is:

 A. Excellent
 B. Very good
 C. Good
 D. Fair
 E. Needs improvement
18. My experience presenting briefings to a group can be described as:
 A. Presenting briefings to a group of 1-5 individuals.
 B. Presenting briefings to a group of 5-10 individuals.
 C. Presenting briefings to a group of more than 10 individuals.
 D. I have not presented any briefings to a group.
19. I have experience responding orally to questions pertaining to:

 A. Personnel benefits
 B. Proper completion of personnel documentation
 C. Pay and leave entitlements
 D. Labor relations materials
 E. None of the above
20. I understand that to obtain information on the status of my application and the outcome of the application process, I (the applicant) must inquire through USAJOBS. No separate notification will be sent to me. To view the status of my application and the outcome of the application process, I must go to the USAJOBS website and log into My Account. Once in My Account. I must enter the "Application Status" section of the website.
 A. Yes
 B. No
21. I understand that in order for my application to be considered, I must answer all questions, submit all required documents and click "Submit" at the end. If I go back into my application, after submission, in order to review, make adjustments, or add attachments, I must click the "Submit" button again in order for my application to be re-submitted.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected