Position Title
Crane Operator (Engineering Equipment Operator)-Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-572511-12789678-JJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, August 26, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience or training needed to qualify for a WG-5725-11 CRANE OPERATOR (ENGINEERING EQUIPMENT OPERATOR) position. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.
1. Select the one statement which best describes the highest level of experience you possess, and which demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of an WG-5725-11 CRANE OPERATOR (ENGINEERING EQUIPMENT OPERATOR without more than normal supervision. Note: Your resume must support the response you select.

 A. I am able to perform the most difficult and complex Crane Operator (Engineering Equipment Operator) tasks. Operates boom cranes at various outdoor locations where maneuverability is restricted and accuracy is critical and to operate equipment, such as graders, tractors, and front-end loaders. Perform functions as cutting, moving, digging, grading, and rolling earth, sand, stone, and other materials. Performs visual and operational checks of all moving parts prior to start of work and reports any discrepancies noted. Uses extreme boom lengths or angles to reach and move large, heavy, or awkward loads that are near or at the crane?s lifting capacity. Operates cranes at all boom lengths, angles, and positions in areas which do not permit positioning the crane near the work to be done. Makes rapid lifting capacity judgments during continual position changes. Makes quick and exact control changes while making precise moves and load placements. I perform these tasks with a high degree of independence.
 B. I am able to perform a full range of Crane Operator (Engineering Equipment Operator) tasks. Operates boom cranes at various outdoor locations where maneuverability is restricted and accuracy is critical and to operate equipment, such as graders, tractors, and front-end loaders. Perform functions as cutting, moving, digging, grading, and rolling earth, sand, stone, and other materials. Performs visual and operational checks of all moving parts prior to start of work and reports any discrepancies noted. Uses extreme boom lengths or angles to reach and move large, heavy, or awkward loads that are near or at the crane?s lifting capacity. Operates cranes at all boom lengths, angles, and positions in areas which do not permit positioning the crane near the work to be done. Makes rapid lifting capacity judgments during continual position changes. Makes quick and exact control changes while making precise moves and load placements. I am able to perform these tasks on my own initiative under limited supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 C. I am able to perform common Crane Operator (Engineering Equipment Operator) tasks. Attaches hooks, magnets, clamshell buckets, orange-peel buckets, pile driver, demolition hammers, dragline buckets, or and other special material handling devices as required. Moves earth on mountains and steep slopes, graded curves and shoulders, rocky or soft ground, hilly forests, and other surfaces with similar rough features. Grades surfaces, compacts soils, or rolls to exact specifications on flat or rolling terrain. Adjusts attachments for proper positioning and working order, making adjustments, usually, without stopping the power unit or the equipment. Uses and assures proper fit of required safety equipment and clothing. I work under the close supervision of a work leader or journey-level Crane Operator who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 D. I have a general knowledge of Crane Operator (Engineering Equipment Operator) tasks but have never perform them nor had any training.
 E. My experience does not match any of the statements above.
CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
2. Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected