Position Title
RECREATION ASSISTANT
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
KBNAF-2025-48 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, October 7, 2025 to Sunday, October 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
1.
Do you reside within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position?

The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 Yes, I reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position. The duty location is Navy Lake Site Allatoona, Cartersville, GA, 30121 (30 miles north of Atlanta) that is under the operational control of MWR, Naval Submarine Base, Kings Bay, GA.
 No, I do not reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.


2.
I am willing and able to work an Flexible work schedule. This schedule describes work performed without a regularly scheduled tour of duty; hours are from 0-40 hours per week.
 Yes
 No


3.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF) Employment.  This section will be used to determine if you possess the education, certification and/or experience to qualify for the position.  All responses must be supported by your resume.  Failure to respond or failure for supporting information to be found in your resume, can/will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Select the response applicable to you.
 I have six (6) months or more of general experience AND six (6) months or more of specialized experience in recreation. General experience is any type of work that demonstrates the applicant's ability to perform the work of the position, or experience that provided a familiarity with the subject matter or processes of the broad subject area of the occupation. Specialized experience includes performing aid or assistance in the organization and administration of recreation activities, such as preparing activities calendars, maintaining attendance records, and providing information concerning schedules and activities.
 I have successful completion of two (2) years of study that included at least 12 semester hours in courses related to recreation (e.g., basic psychology, group dynamics, physical education, arts and crafts, etc.). If claiming education in lieu of experience transcripts must be included.
 I have an equivalent combination of education (include transcripts) and/or experience in recreation as described above.
 I have none of the above.


2.
How many years of experience do you have with providing customer service (e.g. providing timely and attentive service to internal and external customers, clear communication skills, product knowledge, and positive attitude)?
 I have more than three (3) years of experience as described above.
 I have between two (2) and three (3) years of experience as described above.
 I have between one (1) and two (2) years of experience as described above.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙