Position Title
INTERDISCIPLINARY CLINICAL COUNSELOR/SOCIAL WORKER/NURSE (NEW PARENT SUPPORT HOME VISITOR)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
JRM-25-436 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 25, 2025 to Saturday, August 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This position requires selectee to satisfactorily complete all background checks in accordance with PL 101-647 to include National Agency Check with Written Inquiries (NACI). If access to Government computer, databases, and/or systems is required in the performance of duties, the incumbent must pass SF- 86/Eligibility for Secret Clearance upon hire and periodically thereafter as a condition of employment. To obtain a Secret Clearance, selectee must be a U.S. Citizen. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I am willing and able to acquire professional job-related certifications with the time frame specified in the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0101 - Social Science
 B. 0185 - Social Work
 C. 0610 - Nurse
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds (NAF) Employment.  This section will be used to determine if you possess the specialized experience, education, and/or licensure to qualify for the NAF New Parent Support Home Visitor position. Failure to meet the specialized experience, education, licensure, and/or failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below; official transcripts are attached/provided; and/or valid licensure attached/provided.
1. Basic Requirements: 0101
Choose the statement that best describes your experience and/or education related to this position (Resume MUST reflect experience and/or MUST provide/attach official transcripts)
 A. I have a bachelors degree or higher in behavioral or social sciences; or related discipline as appropriate to the position, such as Marriage and Family Therapy; Mental Health Counseling; or completion of a degree from a program accredited by the Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Education Programs (CACREP) AND at least 2 years of full time direct work experience in the prevention intervention, or treatment of child abuse or domestic abuse, or the provision of maternal or child health support services. (MUST provide/attach official transcripts and resume MUST reflect experience)
 B. I have a combination of education and experience that provided knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field, including at least 2 years of full time direct work experience in the prevention intervention, or treatment of child abuse or domestic abuse, or the provision of maternal or child health support services. (MUST provide/attach official transcripts and resume MUST reflect experience)
 C. I have four years of appropriate experience that demonstrates acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field, including at least 2 years of full time direct work experience in the prevention intervention, or treatment of child abuse or domestic abuse, or the provision of maternal or child health support services. (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 D. None of the statements apply to me.
2. Basic Requirements: 0185
Do you have a Masters degree in social work from a school accredited by the Council on Social Work Education AND 2 years of direct experience in the prevention intervention, or treatment of child abuse or domestic abuse, or the provision of maternal or child health support services?  (MUST provide/attach official transcripts and resume MUST reflect experience)
 A. Yes, official transcripts provided/attached and resume reflects experience.
 B. No
3. Basic Requirements: 0610
Choose the statement that best describes your experience, education, and licensure/registration related to this position (MUST provide/attach official transcripts, MUST provide/attach current/valid licensure/registration, AND resume MUST reflect experience)
NOTE: Bachelors degree in nursing must be from an accredited professional nursing education program. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Education Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained.  Official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required for individuals who graduated from foreign nursing schools.
 A. I have a bachelor's degree in nursing as described above; AND National Council Licensure Examination; AND Possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States; AND Possess a PhD or equivalent doctoral degree from a professional nursing educational program or related medical science field; AND At least 2 years of full time direct work experience in child abuse or domestic abuse, maternal or child health, community health, or mental health. (MUST provide/attach official transcripts, MUST provide/attach current/valid licensure/registration, AND resume MUST reflect experience)
 B. I have a bachelor's degree in nursing as described above; AND National Council Licensure Examination; AND Possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States; AND At least three years of full time professional nursing experience; AND At least 2 years of full time direct work experience in child abuse or domestic abuse, maternal or child health, community health, or mental health. (MUST provide/attach official transcripts, MUST provide/attach current/valid licensure/registration, AND resume MUST reflect experience)
 C. None of the statements apply to me
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. Specialized Experience: 0101/0185 
Do you have a minimum of three years of full time specialized work experience providing positive parenting practices?  (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Choose the statement that best describes your work experience related to this position (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 A. Has 5+ years of full time work experience providing psychosocial, educational support, and positive parenting practices to parents and expectant parents
 B. Has 3+ years of full time work experience providing psychosocial, educational support, and positive parenting practices to parents and expectant parents
 C. Has 1+ years of full time work experience providing psychosocial, educational support, and positive parenting practices to parents and expectant parents
 D. None of the statements apply to me
6. Choose the statement that best applies to you. (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 A. Currently holds a clinical counselor, social worker, nurse, or related position providing psychosocial, educational support, and positive parenting practices to parents and expectant parents within CNIC
 B. Currently holds a clinical counselor, social worker, nurse, or related position providing psychosocial, educational support, and positive parenting practices to parents and expectant parents within DoD
 C. Has held a clinical counselor, social worker, nurse, or related position providing psychosocial, educational support, and positive parenting practices to parents and expectant parents within the last 3 years
 D. None of the statements apply to me
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected