Position Title
Occupational Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTD-12809692-26-EN Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 2, 2025 to Monday, October 20, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11
12


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


3.
SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action (for Eligibility): If you are a current federal employee, you must attach your most recent, non-award SF-50. This SF-50 should not be more than a year old and must show your current position, grade and step. Award SF-50's typically do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted if they do not include Grade and Step. Examples of appropriate SF-50's include:
Within grade increases at the highest grade held
Promotions with an effective date more than one year old
SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old
Did you submit the required SF50 with your application? Failure to submit one may result in a disqualification.
 Yes
 No


4.
Please provide your driver's license number, issuing state and expiration date. Reminder - Do not include a copy of your license; if referred for interview it may be requested at that time.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Occupational Therapist position with the Department of Veterans Affairs. We will evaluate your resume and responses to this questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be fully supported by your resume and supporting documents as we may not make assumptions regarding your experience.


Basic Qualifications Occupational Therapist


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY: Candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by 38 U.S.C. ? 7403(f)

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Education and/or Experience: (1) The individual must meet at least one of the following requirements below:
Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) years of experience as an occupational therapist; (NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE) would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy.) OR
Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) full years of graduate education in a related field; (NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that ACOTE would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy.) OR
Master's Degree or higher in occupational therapy.
Individuals must be a graduate of a degree program in occupational therapy approved by the ACOTE or predecessor organizations. This is inclusive of an internship (supervised fieldwork experience required by the educational institution). ACOTE is the only accreditation agency recognized by the United States Department of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation. Degree programs may be verified by contacting the American Occupational Therapy Association website or at their office address: American Occupational Therapy Association, P.O. Box 31220, Bethesda, MD 20824-1220.

Do you possess at least one of the following requirements listed below? (Note: Transcripts must be submitted with your application.)
 I currently possess a Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) years of experience as an occupational therapist.
 I currently possess a Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) full years of graduate education in a related field.
 I currently possess a Master's Degree or higher in occupational therapy.
 I do not meet any of the education/experience requirements.


3.
Certification: Candidates must possess a current National Board for Certification in Occupational Therapy (NBCOT) certification as an Occupational Therapist.

Do you possess a current NBCOT certification as an OT?

**Exceptions for the Graduate Occupational Therapist***
OT graduates from an approved occupational therapy program [who otherwise meet the minimum qualification requirements,] but who do not possess NBCOT certification and/or [ ]state [licensure], may be [appointed, pending certification and/or licensure,] as a graduate OT [on a full-time temporary appointment] not-to-exceed two years under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(c)(2).
Graduate OTs may only be appointed at the GS-9 grade level and may not be promoted/converted to the GS-11 level until licensure and/or certification is obtained. For grades levels at or above the developmental GS-11 grade level, the OT must be certified and licensed.
A graduate OT may provide care only under the direct supervision of a licensed] OT who meets all state regulatory requirements.
Temporary graduate OT appointments may not be extended beyond two years, or converted to a new temporary appointment
(NOTE: If you answer yes to this question, you must attach a copy of your certification. If you fail to submit a copy of your certification, you will be rated as ineligible for the GS-11 and GS-12 grade level.)
 Yes, I have the required certification
 I am pending certification
 No, I do not meet the above qualifications.


4.
State Licensure: Candidates must possess a full, current, and unrestricted state license, to practice occupational therapy in a state, territory or Commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia.

Do you have a current, unrestricted, and active license, registration, trademark, or certification by a state to practice occupational therapy in a State, Territory, and Commonwealth of the United States?

(NOTE: If you answer yes to this question, you must attach a copy of your license. If you fail to submit a copy of your license, you will be rated as ineligible for the GS-11 and GS-12 grade level.)
 Yes, I have the required licensure
 I am pending the required licensure
 No, I do not meet the above requirements.


Select YES or NO to answer the following questions for the GRADE REQUIREMENTS regarding the occupational series for this position.


5.
GS-9 Occupational Therapist: To qualify for this grade level you must possess the following:

Education, Experience, and Licensure: None beyond the basic requirements described above.
 I possess the education and/or experience described above.
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in any of the above statements


6.
GS-11 Occupational Therapist: To qualify for this grade level you must possess the following:

Education and/or Experience: Completion of one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-9 grade level and directly related to the position being filled; or
three years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a degree in occupational therapy or a directly related field; or
Doctorate in occupational therapy.

In addition to the above requirements, candidates must also demonstrate the following Knowledge Skills and Abilities (KSA):
Knowledge of occupational therapy practice.
Ability to administer/interpret evaluation findings to develop and coordinate intervention plans, including goals and methods of treatment.
Ability to implement intervention plans directly or in collaboration with others.
Skill in monitoring an individual's response to interventions and modify treatment plans and reevaluating as indicated.
Ability to communicate and or collaborate with patients, family members, caregivers, interdisciplinary professionals and/or other individuals verbally and in writing.
Knowledge of health and safety regulations to minimize risk in the provision of patient care and the environment of care.
Knowledge of applicable regulations governing documentation, reimbursement and workload entry in accordance with established professional practice.
Have you successfully completed this requirement? (to be creditable, this must be supported by your application materials)
 I possess the above experience and am capable of demonstrating the required KSAs.
 My education and/or experience does not reflect any of the above statements.


7.
GS-12 Occupational Therapist: To qualify for this grade level you must possess the following:

Education and/or Experience: Completion of one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level and directly related to the position being filled.

In addition to the above requirements, candidates must also demonstrate the following Knowledge Skills and Abilities (KSA):
Knowledge of occupational therapy principles and techniques consistent with current clinical standards based on OT theory and evidence based practice. Knowledge is inclusive of physical, occupational, cognitive, and psychosocial functional deficits.
Ability to collaborate and communicate orally and in writing with all internal and external stakeholders.
Ability to use critical analysis, clinical reasoning, and creativity to independently solve complex problems related to adapting and modifying assessments, treatment plans, activities and procedures to meet the needs of patients.
Skill in procuring, fabricating, adjusting, adapting, and modifying orthoses, splints, and adaptive equipment for activities of daily living (inclusive of durable medical equipment).
Ability to conduct OT related in-service and clinical training.
Have you successfully completed this requirement? (to be creditable, this must be supported by your application materials)
 I possess the above experience and am capable of demonstrating the required KSAs.
 My education and/or experience does not reflect any of the above statements.


RESUME REMINDER- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙