Position Title
General Attorney
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-25-12821348-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, November 3, 2025 to Thursday, November 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13


2.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the General Attorney position with the Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
The 0905 Attorney occupation has specific educational requirements which apply to all positions. From the options below, select the one which describes your educational background. Education above the high school level must have been completed in a U.S. college, university, or other educational institution that has been accredited by one of the accrediting agencies or associations recognized by the Secretary, U.S. Department of Education.

 I have successfully completed a full course of study in a school of law accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA) and have the first professional law degree (LLB or JD). (NOTE: YOU MUST SUBMIT A COPY OF YOUR TRANSCRIPTS AT TIME OF APPLICATION).
 My education is not described in A above.


2.
Select one statement that best describes the education or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform General Attorney work at the GS-12 level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have two or more years of professional legal experience, acquired after being admitted to the bar, commensurate with the duties and responsibilities of the position. (NOTE: EXPERIENCE MUST BE DOCUMENTED IN YOUR RESUME).
 My professional legal experience is not described in A above.


3.
Select one statement that best describes the education or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform General Attorney work at the GS-13 level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have two or more years of professional legal experience, acquired after being admitted to the bar, commensurate with the duties and responsibilities of the position. (NOTE: EXPERIENCE MUST BE DOCUMENTED IN YOUR RESUME).
 My professional legal experience is not described in A above.


4.
This section will be used to determine if you possess the certification required to qualify for a General Attorney, GS-0905-12/13.
 I have active membership in the bar of the highest court of a State, U.S. commonwealth, U.S. territory or the District of Columbia; also, I have full privileges to practice law in this jurisdiction. A status of active but not eligible to practice does not meet this requirement. (NOTE: YOU MUST PROVIDE A COPY OF BAR MEMBERSHIP AT TIME OF APPLICATION).
 I am NOT currently a member in the bar for the highest court of a state, U.S. commonwealth, U.S. territory or District of Columbia.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙