Position Title
Field Operation Resource Coordinator
Agency
Food Safety and Inspection Service
Announcement Number
FSIS-25-MMP-12799403-JG Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 12, 2025 to Thursday, September 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. Your answers will be used to determine your eligibility to apply to this job opportunity announcement. You will be considered under the eligibility option(s) to which you answer YES. Select YES to all eligibility options for which you want to be considered. If you respond NO to meeting the criteria for all the eligibilities, you will not be considered for the position(s) under this announcement.

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration for EACH selected eligibility. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration.
1.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current or former permanent Farm Service Agency County employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current USDA employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a USDA employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment AND you have held or currently hold a position on a permanent basis in the competitive service with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING CAREFULLY. Applicants will be referred to all grade levels at or above the one selected for which they are qualified. Not selecting the lowest grade announced as your Lowest Acceptable Grade could limit your consideration for referral if, after review of your application, resume, and supporting documents, you are deemed not qualified for your selected Lowest Acceptable Grade. Selecting the lowest grade announced as your Lowest Acceptable Grade will not limit your consideration at higher grades.
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
11
12
2. I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. DOCUMENT UPLOADS - I understand that each document uploaded must be less than 5MB and in one of the following document formats: GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, PDF, TXT, or Word (.DOC or .DOCX). For more information see the "How to Apply" portion of the vacancy announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. How did you learn about this FSIS position? Please select all that apply.
 A. LinkedIn
 B. Social Media (such as Facebook, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Job Finder Site (such as Indeed, Monster, etc.)
 D. Job Board from School, College, University, or Alumni Organization (e.g., Handshake, Symplicity, 12Twenty, Other)
 E. Local Billboard
 F. FSIS-Sponsored Job Fair, Career Fair, or Information Session/Event
 G. School-Sponsored Job Fair, Career Fair, or Information Session/Event Sponsored by a School, College, University, or Alumni Organization
 H. FSIS Employee
 I. USDA Employee
 J. Friend, Family Member, or non-FSIS or non-USDA Coworker
 K. USAJobs Search
 L. Other
6. Please share any additional details about how you learned about this position, especially if you selected "Other" in the previous question. If nothing to add, enter "N/A".
7. Potential Variation in Shift, Duty Location, and Amount of Travel:

Vacancy shift, duty location, and amount of travel may be frequent. I am willing to accept a position that includes the following (select all that apply):
 A. 1st Shift
 B. 2nd Shift
 C. 3rd Shift
 D. Rotating Shifts
 E. Varying shifts with frequent travel (50%-75% of the time)
 F. Varying shifts with very frequent travel (76% or more of the time)
8. 2-PAGE LIMIT ACKNOWLEDGEMENT - I understand that there is a 2-page limit on resume length for the initial qualification determination. If my resume is longer than two pages, only the first two pages will be reviewed to determine if I qualify.

For more information on what to include in your resume, see the "Required Documents" section of the vacancy announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. Carefully read the following descriptions of experience and education. Select the one that best describes your qualifications for a GS-11 Resource Coordinator. NOTE: Your resume must demonstrate at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level, specialized experience that is in the line of work of the position to be filled and contains the following: 1. Developing operating strategies for the placement and use of personnel 2. Developing procedures and operating guidelines for financial management, workforce usage, administrative best practices, work measurement 3. Participation in developing an annual operating budget and projecting staffing levels for an organization 4. Experience recruiting, hiring, and maintaining a workforce. If qualifying based on education, you must submit a complete, legible copy of your official college or university transcript(s) with your application to document academic achievements and receive credit.

 A. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, OR I have successfully completed 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M directly related to this position.
 C. I have a combination of specialized experience as described in A and more than 2 years of graduate education as described in B when combined together meets 100% of the total requirements for the position. To compute, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond two years by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify.
 D. None of the above describes my qualifications for this position.
2. I am a current GS-11 or have 52 weeks Time-In-Grade at the GS-09 level or equivalent to qualify at the GS-11.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Carefully read the following descriptions of experience and education. Select the one that best describes your qualifications for the GS-12 Resource Coordinator. NOTE: Your resume must demonstrate at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level, specialized experience that is in the line of work of the position to be filled and contains the following: 1. Overseeing operating strategies for the placement and use of personnel 2. Managing and Implementing procedures and operating guidelines for financial management, workforce usage, administrative best practices, work measurement 3. Overall responsibility for developing an annual operating budget and projecting staffing levels for a large organization 4. Advising on appropriate staffing levels and recruitment strategies necessary to maintain a large workforce 5. Planning or directing the operational functions of a Resource Management program to include managing, supervising or leading subordinate staff.

 A. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. None of the above describes my qualifications for this position.
4. I am a current GS-12 or have at least 52 weeks Time-In-Grade at the GS-11 or equivalent to qualify for the GS-12.

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Select all that apply. Describe your experience evaluating and identifying the needs of the workforce based on organizational goals, budget considerations, and staffing.
I have:

 A. Coordinated budgetary functions to ensure support tasks are accomplished in accordance with regulations and policies.
 B. Facilitated human capital planning in accordance with regulations and policies.
 C. Reported staffing allocations and usage to support effective staffing and recruitment for my functional area.
 D. Reported accession and attrition rates to support effective staffing and recruitment for my functional area.
 E. Coordinated recruitment activities to fill critical vacancies.
 F. Provided expert advice and guidance in the administration of the functional area?s operating budget through the usage of financial management systems.
 G. Furnished various analytical reports to the management team.
 H. I do not have experience performing these tasks.
6. Select all that apply. Describe your experience identifying problems and using sound judgment to make recommendations towards resolution.
I have:

 A. Ensured that support tasks related to budgetary functions were accomplished in accordance with regulations and policies.
 B. Identified staffing allocation challenges and offered recommendations for resolution.
 C. Prepared accession and attrition reports for leadership to support staffing and recruitment for my functional area.
 D. Coordinated recruitment activities to fill critical vacancies.
 E. Ensured that support tasks related to human capital planning were accomplished in accordance with regulations and policies.
 F. Identified problems and furnished various analytical reports for data to make recommendations towards resolutions to the management team.
 G. Provided expert advice and guidance in the administration related to the operating budget through the usage of financial management systems.
 H. I do not have experience performing these tasks.
7. Select all that apply. The following reflects my experience working with internal and external customers of my organization to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations.

 A. Assisted management with overseeing administrative support special projects.
 B. Assessed the needs of my organization by facilitating human capital planning in accordance with regulations and policies.
 C. Analyzed uncommon administrative support problems and provide resolution.
 D. Reported staffing allocations and usage to support effective staffing and recruitment for my organization.
 E. Reported accession and attrition rates to support effective staffing and recruitment for my organization.
 F. Supported senior staff on research and/or tracking of data for the purposes of evaluations and corrective action plan activities.
 G. Identified resource management and administrative process issues, risks, or problems to make recommendations for process improvements.
 H. Ensured the administrative support staff upheld my organization?s customer service standards.
 I. Defined timelines for administrative activities to satisfy customer expectations.
 J. Analyzed operational procedures within my functional area to ensure objectives were met.
 K. I do not have experience performing these tasks.
8. Select all that apply. Describe your experience organizing work, setting priorities, and determining resource requirements.
I have:

 A. Researched budgetary requirements to ensure support tasks were accomplished in accordance with regulations and policies.
 B. Assisted management with overseeing administrative support special projects.
 C. Decided plans of action on uncommon administrative support problems after determining resource requirements.
 D. Reported staffing allocations and usage to support effective staffing and recruitment for my organization.
 E. Reports accession and attrition rates to support effective staffing and recruitment for my organization.
 F. Supported senior staff on research and/or tracking of data for the purposes of evaluations and corrective action plan activities.
 G. Analyzed operational procedures within my functional area to ensure objectives are met.
 H. Determined customer service standards to ensure they are met by the administrative support staff.
 I. Established deadlines for administrative activities based on organizational priorities.
 J. I do not have experience performing these tasks.
9. Select all that apply. The following reflects my experience evaluating technical information that was acquired through formal training or extensive on-the-job experience.

 A. Provided decision making on uncommon administrative support problems.
 B. Ensured regulations and policies were correctly interpreted and applied to workplace situations.
 C. Reported staffing allocations and usage to support effective staffing and recruitment for my organization.
 D. Reported accession and attrition rates to support effective staffing and recruitment for my organization.
 E. Coordinated recruitment activities after identifying the need to fill critical vacancies.
 F. Facilitating management initiatives impacting my organization?s operations.
 G. Supported senior staff on research and tracking of data for the purposes of evaluations and corrective action plan activities.
 H. Furnished various analytical reports to the management team.
 I. Analyzed operational procedures within the District Office to ensure objectives are met.
 J. Provided or coordinated training to administrative support staff on the usage of automated systems to perform essential duties of the position.
 K. I do not have experience performing these tasks.
10. Select all that apply. I have experience where one of my primary responsibilities involved working with others to achieve goals.

 A. Assisting management with overseeing administrative support special projects.
 B. Contributed to decision making on uncommon administrative support problems.
 C. Collaborated with administrative support staff on analyzing operational procedures within the functional area to ensure objectives are met.
 D. Supported senior staff on research and/or tracking of data for the purposes of evaluations and corrective action plan activities.
 E. Identified resource management and administrative process issues, risks, or problems to make recommendations to management for process improvements.
 F. Worked with the administrative support staff to ensure customer service standards are met.
 G. Collaborated with my functional area to determine deadlines ensuring administrative activities are completed timely.
 H. Provided or coordinated training to administrative support staff on the usage of automated systems to perform essential duties of the position.
 I. I do not have experience performing these tasks.
11. I have the following work experience encouraging employee development:

 A. I have set customer service standards.
 B. I have ensured customer service standards were understood and upheld by the administrative support staff.
 C. I have determined deadlines and facilitated administrative activity processes to ensure timely completion.
 D. I have provided or coordinated training to administrative support staff on the usage of automated systems to perform essential duties of the position.
 E. I do not have experience performing these tasks.
12. Select all that apply. Describe your experience supporting human capital management activities.
I have:

 A. Assisted with overseeing administrative support special projects.
 B. Actively contributed to decision-making on uncommon administrative support problems.
 C. Ensured regulations and policies are correctly interpreted and applied to situations.
 D. Supported senior staff on research and/or tracking of data for the purposes of evaluations and corrective action plan activities.
 E. Identified resource management and administrative process issues, risks, or problems to make recommendations for process improvements.
 F. Ensured customer service standards are met by the administrative support staff.
 G. Provided or coordinated training to administrative support staff on the usage of automated systems to perform essential duties.
 H. Ensured administrative activities are completed in a timely fashion.
 I. Analyzed operational procedures within the functional area to ensure objectives are met.
 J. I do not have experience performing these tasks.
13. Please check the answer(s) that most closely describe your experience utilizing problem solving skills to improve administrative processes and best practices.
I have:

 A. Coordinated support for special projects to improve administrative functions.
 B. Recommended solution for uncommon administrative support problems.
 C. Identified errors or problems.
 D. Helped facilitate corrective action plan activities.
 E. Solved administrative process issues.
 F. Minimized risks.
 G. Accessed problems for resolution.
 H. Developed best practices to meet customer service goals.
 I. Contributed to best practices to meet customer service goals.
 J. Defined timelines for administrative activities.
 K. Provided training to administrative support staff to increase knowledge of automated systems.
 L. Analyzed operational procedures within the functional area to ensure objectives are met.
 M. I do not have experience performing these tasks.
14. Select all that apply. The following reflects my experience staying knowledgeable on available resources to provide internal and external customers of my organization, with quality products and services.

 A. Well informed of budgetary functions to ensure support tasks are accomplished in accordance with regulations and policies.
 B. Researched regulations and policies regarding our products and services to ensure they are correctly interpreted and applied.
 C. Attained proficiency in financial management systems to provide management with advice and guidance regarding my organizations operating budget.
 D. Knowledgeable of automated systems to provide and coordinate training to the administrative support staff.
 E. I do not have experience performing these tasks.
15. Select all that apply. Describe your experience determining short- and long-term goals and strategies to achieve them.
I have:
 A. Strategized to overcome human capital deficiencies in accordance with regulations and policies.
 B. Determined the goals of my organization's operating budget through the usage of financial management systems.
 C. Coordinated recruitment activities to fill critical vacancies.
 D. Facilitated management initiatives impacting my organization's operations.
 E. Identified resource management and administrative process issues, risks, or problems to make recommendations for process improvements.
 F. Accomplished organizational goals by furnishing various analytical reports and collaborating with the management team.
 G. Provided or coordinated training to the administrative support staff on the usage of automated systems to achieve goals of my functional area's processes.
 H. I do not have experience performing these tasks.
16. Select all that apply. In my current and previous roles, I have advised others on:
 A. Regulations and policies regarding my organizations budgetary functions.
 B. Regulations and policies regarding human capital planning.
 C. My organization's operating budget through the usage of financial management systems.
 D. Resource management and administrative process issues, risks, or problems to make recommendations for process improvements.
 E. Customer service standards of my organization.
 F. Completing administrative tasks by their deadlines.
 G. I do not have experience performing these tasks.
17. Select all that apply. Describe your experience providing your expertise to encourage teamwork to carry out your organization's goals.
 A. Provided management with expert advice and guidance regarding the operational budget in my organization through the usage of financial management systems.
 B. Reported staffing allocations and usage to support effective staffing and recruitment for my organization.
 C. Researched regulations and policies to ensure they are correctly interpreted to workplace situations.
 D. Reported accession and attrition rates to support effective staffing and recruitment for my organization.
 E. Coordinated recruitment activities with my organization's leaders to fill critical vacancies.
 F. Facilitated management initiatives impacting my organization's operations.
 G. Equipped the management team with various analytical reports to foster collaboration towards process improvements.
 H. I do not have experience performing these tasks.
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
18. Describe your experience researching information to interpret and apply regulations and policies.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected