Position Title
Emergency Management Specialist (Watch Officer)
Agency
Office of the Secretary of the Interior
Announcement Number
OS-6052-25-AA-101(MP) Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, June 10, 2025 to Wednesday, July 9, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.

Do you wish to be considered as a 30% or more disabled veteran?
Under this authority, an agency may appoint, without competition, an eligible disabled veteran to a term or temporary appointment in the Federal service.  In appropriate circumstances, a person receiving a temporary or term appointment under this authority may be converted to a permanent competitive service appointment.When using this authority to appoint on a permanent basis, you are first placed on a time limited appointment of at least 60 days and then converted to a permanent appointment at management's discretion.

To be eligible for a 30% or more disabled appointment, you must be the following:

Retired from active military service with a disability rating of 30 percent or more; or
Rated by the Department of Veterans' Affairs (VA) as having a compensable, service-connected disability of 30 percent or more.

To claim eligibility under 30% or more disabled, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

If you are claiming eligibility based on 30% or more service connected disability, you are required to submit documentation that is indicated on the SF-15 as acceptable proof of verification of your preference (i.e., official document, dated 1991 or later, from the Department of Veterans Affairs, or from a branch of the Armed Forces, certifying that the veterans total combined serviced-connected disability rating is 30% or more.

For more information on veteran hiring authorities, please click here

 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

Do you wish to be considered under CTAP?
To be eligible for Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP), a person must:

Be a current or former permanent competitive status DOI federal employee displaced from a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy with a current (or last) performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To claim eligibility under CTAP, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

Copies of the appropriate documentation which includes:

Reduction in force (RIF) separation notice;
SF-50 reflecting your RIF separation, or a notice of proposed removal for declining a directed reassignment or transfer of function to another commuting area;
You MUST also submit documentation to reflect your current (or last) performance rating of record.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Were you employed overseas as an Appropriated Fund employee AND did you:

• complete 52 weeks of creditable overseas service in an appropriated fund position(s) as a family member during the time you accompanied a sponsor officially assigned to an overseas area; AND,
• receive a fully successful or better (or equivalent) performance rating;
AND,
• return to the United States to resume residence less than 3 years ago?

For more information, review USAJOBS Former Overseas Employees resources. USAJOBS Former Overseas Employees resources. 

 To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, and performance appraisal.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5.

Do you wish to be considered under Merit Promotion?
To be eligible under competitive merit promotion, you must be:

A current or former (reinstatement eligible) permanent Federal civilian employee under a competitive career or career-conditional appointment.

To claim eligibility under competitive merit promotion, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

A copy of your most recent SF-50 reflecting current position information and competitive status (SF-50 box #24 - 1 or 2, box #34 - 1), AND if the most recent SF-50 does not show your highest grade held, then you MUST also submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis (No award 50's will be accepted).
 A. Yes
 B. No
6.

Do you wish to be considered under ICTAP?
To be eligible for Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP), a person must:

Be a current or former permanent competitive status federal employee displaced from a position in a non-DOI federal agency (e.g., IRS, VA, Department of Labor, etc.) in the same local commuting area of the vacancy with a current (or last) performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To claim eligibility under ICTAP, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

Copies of the appropriate documentation which includes:

Reduction in force (RIF) separation notice;
SF-50 reflecting your RIF separation, or a notice of proposed removal for declining a directed reassignment or transfer of function to another commuting area;
You MUST also submit documentation to reflect your current (or last) performance rating of record.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7.

Do you wish to be considered under an OPM Interchange Agreement or a Miscellaneous Authority not regulated by OPM?
Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management?

To be eligible for career or career-conditional appointment under an OPM Interchange Agreement, a person must:

Be currently serving under an appointment without time limit in another merit system or have been involuntarily separated from such appointment without personal cause within the preceding year; AND
Be currently serving in or have been involuntarily separated from a position covered by an interchange agreement (some agreements do not cover all positions of the other merit systems); AND
Have served continuously for at least 1 year in the other merit system prior to appointment under the interchange agreement.

To claim eligibility under an Interchange Agreement, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

A copy of your most recent SF-50 reflecting current position information and type of appointment; AND
Documentation that you have served in the other merit system for at least one year.

For more information on Interchange Agreements, please click here

-OR- 
Are you a current or former Foreign Service employee?
-OR-
Are you a current:
• Postal Career Service Employee;
• Postal Rate Commission Employee;
• Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; or
• Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee

For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status.

 A. Yes
 B. No
8.

Do you wish to be considered under Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA)?
If you're a current or former Land Management employee (Land management agencies include The Department of Agriculture's Forest Service, The Department of Interior's Bureau of Land Management, National Park Service, Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Reclamation), who worked in a term or temporary job, you may be eligible to apply to merit promotion jobs at any federal agency.

Two groups of individuals are potentially eligible for appointment, including current and/or former employees serving or served under time-limited competitive appointments at land management agencies (as defined above). Land Management Eligibles (LME's) must meet the following eligibility criteria:

• Current land management agency appointees:

must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under one (1) or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two (2) or more years, and
must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.
must meet time in grade requirements.

• Former land management agency appointees:

must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under one (1) or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two (2) or more years,
must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s),
must apply for a position covered by these provisions within two (2) years after their most recent date of separation, and
must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.
must meet time in grade requirements.

Note: A former employee, who otherwise meets the requirements for eligibility, shall be deemed an employee of the agency from which the former employee was most recently separated.

To claim eligibility under the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA), you must submit the following documentation with your application:

SF-50(s) showing the above criteria
Employee Performance Appraisal (Employee Performance Ratings or equivalent)

For more information the LMWFA, please click here

 A. Yes
 B. No
9.

Do you wish to be considered as a Military Spouse?
To be eligible for appointment under this authority, you must be the spouse of one of the following:

Active Duty Spouse:

Includes all spouses of members of the armed forces on active duty
Spouses do not have to relocate with active duty spouse

Based on 100% Disability: As a military spouse, you may be eligible to be considered under this authority if:

The military member was retired under Chapter 61 of title 10, United States Code with a 100% disability rating from the military; or
Was released from active duty and has a disability rating of 100% from the Department of Veterans' Affairs or the military department.

Note: There is no geographic limitation under this category. You will be required to provide documentation of your spouse's disability.

Based on Service Member's Death: As the military spouse, you may be eligible if the military member was killed while on active duty (it does not have to be combat related), and you have not remarried.

Note: There is no geographic limitation in this category. You will be required to provide documentation on the death of the spouse and your marital status at the time of death.

Documentation Required: To confirm eligibility the hiring agency must verify the individual has a valid marriage certificate or other documentation verifying marriage (such as any official documentation verifying a recognized common law marriage). In addition, the service member's spouse must be authorized on the military orders assigning the service member to a certain post.  To verify this, please submit a copy of your marriage license, the military orders regarding the PCS move, documentation of disability as outlined above (if applicable), or documentation that the service member was killed while on active duty (and you are not remarried) (if applicable).

 A. Yes
 B. No
10.

Do you wish to be considered under National Service (Peace Corps and VISTA)?
Former Peace Corps Volunteers:  Under this authority, a former Peace Corps volunteer who recently completed his/her volunteer service may be appointed without competition to a permanent position in the Federal competitive service.

To be eligible for appointment under this authority, you must have satisfactorily completed your volunteer service in the Peace Corps within the past year.
To claim eligibility, you must provide a letter from the Peace Corps indicating the beginning and end dates of your volunteer service, certifying that you served satisfactorily.

Former Peace Corps Employees:  Under this authority, a former Peace Corps employee (other than a volunteer) who recently completed at least 36 months of continuous service with the Peace Corps may be appointed without competition to a permanent appointment in the Federal competitive service.

To be eligible for appointment under this authority, you must have satisfactorily completed no less than 36 months of continuous service in the Peace Corps within the past three years.
To claim eligibility, you must provide a letter from the Peace Corps indicating the beginning and end dates of your service as an employee of the Peace Corps, certifying that you served satisfactorily.
 A. Yes
 B. No
11.

Do you wish to be considered under Non-Competitive Merit Promotion?

To be eligible under non-competitive merit promotion, you must be:

A Current or former (reinstatement eligible) competitive, career/career-conditional Federal employee who has previously competed for, held, or currently holds, the full performance level of the position you are applying.

To claim eligibility under non-competitive merit promotion, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

A copy of your most recent or past SF-50 in order to verify your claim for non-competitive eligibility. If the most recent SF-50 does not show your highest grade competed for or held, then you MUST also submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis.
 A. Yes
 B. No
12.

Are you eligible for conversion from a Pathways Internship?
This authority allows for current Pathways Interns that have completed all Pathways program requirements to be non-competitively converted to a permanent or Term position in the competitive service.

To be eligible for non-competitive conversion from a Pathways Intern position, a person must:

Must be a U.S. Citizen
Be within the 180-day conversion time-frame from the date their degree, career, or technical education program requirements are conferred;
Completed at least 480 hours of work experience acquired through the Internship Program while enrolled full-time or part-time;
Completed their degree, career, or technical education program requirements;
Meet the qualification standards for the position to which the Intern will be converted;
Meet agency-specific requirements as specified in the Participant's Agreement; and,
Maintain acceptable performance under the agency's approved performance management system.
Receive favorable recommendation for conversion from supervisor.
Indefinite Interns must have a completed IDP.
 

To claim eligibility for non-competitive conversion under a Pathways Intern appointment, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

Copies of the appropriate documentation including:

Transcripts with degree date, unofficial will be accepted, however official transcripts will be required prior to a final job offer;
Current pathways agreement;
a favorable recommendation for conversion from the work experience supervisor;
Current SF-50 showing Pathways status.
 A. Yes
 B. No
13.

Do you wish to be considered under Schedule A?
To be eligible under Schedule A, you must be:

A candidate with a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.  Under this authority, a person with severe physical or mental disabilities may be appointed without competition to an excepted service position on a temporary or non-temporary basis. Upon completion of two years of satisfactory service under a non-temporary Schedule A appointment, the appointee may be converted to a permanent appointment in the competitive service. *** Please note: This authority cannot be used for Pathways positions.

To claim eligibility under Schedule A, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

A certification statement/proof of disability from a state Vocational Rehabilitation Service (state or private), Department of Veterans Affairs, a licensed medical professional, or any Federal agency, State agency or agency of the District of Columbia or U. S. territory that issues or provides disability benefits.  Note: Certification Statement/Proof of disability (i.e., a record, statement, or other appropriate documentation confirming a severe physical, mental, or psychiatric disability) issued by a licensed medical professional, a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist, or any Federal or State agency that issues or provides disability benefits.
 A. Yes
 B. No
14.

Do you wish to be considered under Public Land Corp (PLC)?
To be eligible for a Public Land Corp (PLC) appointment:

The candidate must have completed his/her most recent Corp service, which provided him/her with a total of 640 hours, inclusive of 120 hours on a PLC project as defined in 16 USC 1723(d), within the last two (2) years.  The candidate must between the ages of 16-30 (inclusive).

To claim eligibility under Public Land Corp (PLC), you must submit the following documentation with your application:

A copy of the "Certificate of Eligibility for Non-competitive Hiring Status (PLC), signed by a bureau PLC Coordinator.

 A. Yes
 B. No
15.

Do you wish to be considered under VEOA?
The VEOA allows veterans' preference eligibles and other veterans who have been separated from the armed forces under honorable conditions to apply and be considered for certain vacancies that are otherwise open only to status or reinstatement-eligible applicants outside of DOI.

To be eligible under VEOA, you must be one of the following:

A veterans' preference eligible; or
A veteran who was separated from the armed forces after substantially completing three or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions (this means an honorable or general discharge).

To claim eligibility under VEOA, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

A copy of your DD-214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," preferably the Member 4 copy, showing the dates of active duty, type of discharge, and character of service (must be honorable; (this means an honorable or general discharge).

Note for Active duty service members expecting to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions within 120 days: you may be granted tentative preference by submitting a "certification" document in lieu of a Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD 214.  A "certification" is any written document from the armed forces that certifies the service member is expected to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions within 120 days after the certification is submitted by the applicant.

If you are claiming eligibility based on 10-point veterans' preference (CPS, CP, XP), you are required to submit documentation that is indicated on the SF-15 as acceptable proof of verification of your preference (i.e., official document, dated 1991 or later, from the Department of Veterans Affairs, or from a branch of the Armed Forces, certifying that the veterans total combined serviced-connected disability rating is 10% or more.
 A. Yes
 B. No
16.

Do you wish to be considered under VRA?
Under VRA, an agency may hire eligible veterans without competition up to the GS-11 grade level. Upon satisfactory completion of two years of service in a VRA appointment, the appointee must be converted to a permanent appointment in the Federal competitive service.To be eligible for a VRA appointment, you must have been separated from the armed forces under honorable conditions (this means an honorable or general discharge) and be one of the following:

A Disabled veteran;
A Veteran who served on active duty in the Armed Forces during a war, or in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge has been authorized;
A Veteran who, while serving on active duty in the Armed Forces, participated in a United States military operation for which an Armed Forces Service Medal was awarded; or
A recently separated veterans (within 3 years).

To claim eligibility under VRA, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

Your DD-214(s) (reflecting character of service and type of discharge).
If you are claiming eligibility based on 10-point veterans' preference (CPS, CP), you are required to submit documentation that is indicated on the SF-15 as acceptable proof of verification of your preference (i.e., official document, dated 1991 or later, from the Department of Veterans Affairs, or from a branch of the Armed Forces, certifying that the veterans total combined serviced-connected disability rating is 10% or more.
 A. Yes
 B. No
17. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Lakewood, CO
 B. Washington, DC
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
11
12
3. It is your responsibility to ensure that your resume and correct documents are uploaded and received. Please, verify during the application process on the "application review page" that you have uploaded the appropriate documentation as stated in the required documents section of the vacancy announcement. No documentation will be accepted after the closing date of the announcement. I understand that it is my responsibility that I must submit a resume and all required supporting documentation prior to the closing date of the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. What attracted you to this position?
 A. Service as a Civil Servant
 B. Government Benefits
 C. Salary
 D. Work Schedule Flexibility
 E. Downturn in Non-Federal Job Market
 F. Job Stability
 G. Office Location
 H. Other
5. If you have ever held a Federal position please indicate your pay plan, highest grade held, and dates held below (e.g. GS-13; 08/15/11 - 08/15/12). If applying based on noncompetitive eligibility and if you do not have prior Federal service, please type "N/A" in the text box below. (limit 100 characters)
6. Applicants who apply under this job opportunity announcement have the option to have their application, associated documents and applicable personal information shared with other Bureaus/Offices within the Department of the Interior (DOI) that have vacancies within the same occupational series, grade, promotion potential and in the same geographic location(s), including within the same metro/commuting area. Applying to this announcement does not replace the need to apply to other job opportunity announcements for which you wish to receive consideration. If you select "yes", your information could potentially be shared with other bureaus if there is a need to fill another position. If you select "no", your information will NOT be shared with other bureaus. Do you agree to have your information shared with other bureaus?
 A. Yes, I would like my information shared with other bureaus.
 B. No, I would not like my information shared with other bureaus.
7. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Please note that you will only be considered for the eligibility option(s) for which you select. You may select more than one option of consideration, if applicable. If the required documentation is not received by the closing date of the announcement, you will be found ineligible for the position and will be removed from further review. A resume is required for ALL consideration options.

Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. I certify that I have read each of the referral eligibilities identified in this announcement and I have selected the eligibility or eligibilities that I wish to be considered. I understand that failure to identify an eligibility or eligibilities will result in loss of consideration for this announcement. I understand that I must submit all required documentation to verify my eligibility by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Thank you for your interest in this vacancy. Please select the response that best reflects how you meet the qualification requirements for this position.
2. Select the statement that most closely matches your experience as defined in the vacancy announcement for the GS-11 grade level.

 A. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 level as described in the vacancy announcement, and it is clearly written in my resume.
 B. I possess 3 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. (Degree must reflect the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work.)
 C. I possess a combination of graduate level education beyond the first two years of progressive graduate study and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position.
 D. None of the above accurately reflects my qualifications.
3. Select the statement that most closely matches your experience as defined in the vacancy announcement for the GS-12 grade level.

 A. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 level as described in the vacancy announcement, and it is clearly written in my resume.
 B. I possess less than one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 level.
 C. None of the above accurately reflects my qualifications.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level analyzing and/or evaluating critical, time-sensitive information regarding emergency management incidents?

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level grade level applying emergency management procedures while working in an organization?

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level grade level utilizing accepted emergency management systems such as: NIMS (National Incident Management System), ICS (Incident Command System), NRF (National Response Framework)?

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level analyzing and/or evaluating critical, time-sensitive information regarding emergency management incidents?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level grade level applying emergency management procedures while working in an organization?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level grade level utilizing accepted emergency management systems such as: NIMS (National Incident Management System), ICS (Incident Command System), NRF (National Response Framework)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level grade level developing situational awareness products and disseminating that information to emergency management customers or stakeholders?
 A. Yes
 B. No
From the descriptions below, select the response(s) that best describes how your background meets the requirements for the position. Read all responses before making your selection. You are required to answer every question in the questionnaire. YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWERS YOU CLAIM IN THE QUESTIONNAIRE IN ORDER TO BE FOUND QUALIFIED AND CONSIDERED FOR THE POSITION.
11. The National Response Framework (NRF) is:

 A. Written exclusively for professional emergency management practitioners.
 B. A comprehensive guide to prevention, protection, response, recovery, and mitigation.
 C. Triggered following a declaration by the Secretary of Homeland Security.
 D. Always in effect, and elements can be implemented as needed on a flexible, scalable basis to improve response.
 E. None of the above
12. The three National Incident Management System (NIMS) guiding principles are:

 A. Flexibility, standardization, unity of effort.
 B. Unity of effort, preparedness, resource management.
 C. Planning, response, recovery.
 D. Resources, organization, standardization.
 E. None of the above
13. The NRF describes an incident as: any occurrence, natural or manmade, that necessitates a response to protect life or property and includes planned events, as well as emergencies or disasters of all kinds and sizes.

 A. True
 B. False
14. EOC's are one of several system elements included within the Multiagency Coordination System (MACS).

 A. True
 B. False
15. Which of the following is an Emergency Operations Centers (EOC) function?

 A. Coordinating plans and determining resource needs.
 B. Collecting, analyzing, and sharing information.
 C. Providing coordination and policy direction.
 D. All of the above
 E. None of the above
16. A common operating picture can be described as:

 A. A tool for ensuring situational awareness.
 B. A concept for providing senior leadership with pertinent information regarding an incident.
 C. A continuously updated overview of an incident compiled throughout an incident’s life cycle from data shared between integrated systems for communication, information management, and intelligence and information sharing systems.
 D. All of the above
17. Operation Centers may utilize Geographic Information System products combined with normal written notification products in order to effectively fuse incident-related information with mapping products or other data visualization tools.

 A. True
 B. False
18. When an EOC is activated, a way to efficiently share information among team members is using:

 A. Incident Action Plan
 B. Common Operating Picture
 C. Incident Briefing
 D. Situational Awareness
19. This item identifies the competencies, behaviors and tasks that personnel should demonstrate to become qualified for a defined incident management and support position.

 A. Position Description
 B. Red Card
 C. Standard Operating Procedure
 D. Position Task Book
20. FEMA has defined situational awareness as:

 A. Providing an audience with all pertinent information regarding an incident.
 B. The ability to identify, process, and comprehend the critical information about an incident.
 C. Facilitating collaborative planning.
 D. A shared common operating picture. COMPTENCY ID: NONE
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
21. I understand that this position is subject to recall around the clock for emergency management operations or situations dealing with national security emergencies and I may be required to remain at work during dismissal or closure situations.
 A. Yes
 B. No
22. This position requires the incumbent to obtain and/or maintain a valid state driver's license. Do you possess
or are able to obtain and maintain a valid state drivers license?
 A. Yes, I possess a valid state driver's license.
 B. I do not possess a valid state driver's license, however I am able to obtain one.
 C. I do not posses, nor am I able to obtain, a valid state driver's license.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected