Position Title
Public Affairs Specialist
Agency
Executive Office for U.S. Attorneys and the Office of the U.S. Attorneys
Announcement Number
25-MT-12807686-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 29, 2025 to Monday, October 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center help.usajobs.gov/index.php/What_is_CTAP%3F)
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center. https://help.usajobs.gov/index.php/What_is_ICTAP%3F
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Billings, MT
 B. Helena, MT


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


7.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or Non-career Senior Executive Services (SES) appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF50s in the Electronic Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President with or without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A non-career SES appointee serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one of the appointment types in the last 5 years.
 No, I have not held one of the appointment types in the last 5 years.


Assessment 1
For the following questions, please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience. You may select only one response for each question. If you feel that your education or experience exceeds all of the descriptions for a particular question, choose the description that is the closest level to the experience or education that you possess. Failure to respond to these questions will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the ONE response which best describes your education and/or experience to meet the minimum qualification requirements for Public Affairs Specialist, GS-1035-11.

 I have at least one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-9 level in Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as: arranging and conducting special public affair events, workshops, seminars, and meetings with various organizations; developing and implementing programs to inform and educate state-wide or federal audiences of various social economic group programs; speaking to law enforcement, the public, civil, and special groups of interest about law enforcement programs; applies media regulations to all press activities and handles media request inquiries; serving as a primary point of contact for a specific subject areas pertaining to law enforcement; providing or disseminating information orally (for example, responds to inquiries concerning claims status, law enforcement media inquiries, and provides job information).
 I have one of the following types of education in a related field (e.g., Public Relations, Communications, Journalism, Advertising & etc): a Ph.D. or equivalent doctorate degree; OR 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree; OR LL.M, if related. Education at the graduate level must be in an accredited college or university and must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the duties of the position.
 I have a combination of specialized experience and education described above that when combined equal 100% of the requirements. In order to qualify based on a combination, graduate education must be in excess of 2 full years.
 I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.


2.
If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this program.

I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

I understand a comprehensive background investigation, including a check of my credit history and a pre-employment drug screening, may be required for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙