Position Title
Installation Child & Youth Program Director
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12815987 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, October 14, 2025 to Friday, October 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Internal Applicant
1.
Are you a current Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) employee of Naval District Washington (NDW)?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Assistant Youth Sports and Fitness Coordinator. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. 


1.
Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you.
 I have a 4-year degree in Early Childhood Education, Child Development, Elementary Education, Special Education, Home Economics (early childhood emphasis) or related field of study AND 3 years of full time experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have a 4-year degree in a field related to youth programs, such as Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Elementary Education, Secondary Education; or Home Economics with an emphasis in Human Development, Youth Development, Psychology, or Social Work; or other degree in a field appropriate to the position being filled AND 3 years of full-time experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have a Master's degree in the related field of study AND minimum of 1 year of professional experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have a combination of education and experience (e.g., courses equivalent to a major in a field [24 higher level semester hours]) appropriate to the position (see above), plus appropriate experience or additional course work that that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of the 4-year course of study described above AND 3 years of full time experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have none of the above.


2.
What is your highest level of education?
 I have a Master’s degree in Early Childhood Education (ECE), Child Development, Elementary Education, Special Education, Home Economics (early childhood or human development emphasis), Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Secondary Education, Youth Development, Psychology, Social Work, or other degree in a related field of study.
 I have a Bachelor’s degree in ECE, Child Development, Elementary Education, Special Education, Home Economics (early childhood emphasis), or a related field of study that included a major study in education.
 I have a Bachelor’s degree in Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Elementary Education, Secondary Education, Home Economics (human development emphasis), Youth Development, Psychology, Social Work, or other degree in a field appropriate to the position being filled.
 I do not have a degree, but I have a combination of education and experience.
 I have none of the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have in managing and designing complex child and youth development programs, which may include safety, security, disease prevention, employee training, developmentally appropriate activities, parent involvement, and facility management?
 I have 3+ years of experience in managing and designing child and youth development programs, as described above, at the director level in a Department of Defense (DoD) Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in managing and designing child and youth development programs, as described above, at the director level in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience in managing and designing child and youth development programs, as described above, at the director level in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in managing and designing child and youth development programs, as described above, at the director level in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in managing and designing child and youth development programs.
 I have no experience in the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have in applying family childcare regulations (e.g., Federal, State, local, etc.)?
 I have 3+ years of experience in applying family childcare regulations and standards, as described above, at the director level in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in applying family childcare regulations and standards, as described above, at the director level in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience in applying family childcare regulations and standards, as described above, at the director level in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in applying family childcare regulations and standards, as described above, at the director level in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in applying family childcare regulations and standards, as described above, at the director level in a child and youth program.
 I have no experience in the above.


5.
How many years of experience do you have in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing as it pertains to a child and youth program?
 I have 3+ years of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in financial management.
 I have no experience in the above.


6.
How many years of supervisory experience do you have?
 I have 10+ years of supervisory experience.
 I have 5 to 10 years of supervisory experience.
 I have 1 to 5 years of supervisory experience.
 I have less than 1 year of supervisory experience.
 I have no supervisory experience.


7.
Do you have programming and management experience in one or more of the following DoD Child and Youth Program areas: Child Development Centers (CDCs), Family Child Care/Child Development Homes (FCC/CDHs), Youth Programs (YPs), and/or Child and Youth Education Services (CYES) (School Liaison)?
 I have programming and management experience in all four of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have programming and management experience in at least three of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have programming and management experience in at least two of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have programming and management experience in one of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have no experience in the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙