Position Title
BARTENDER
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
MDS-25-031 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 15, 2025 to Tuesday, July 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Lead Bartender, NA-7405-05, position with Morale, Welfare & Recreation. This assessment will be used to evaluate your experience and skill set levels for the position.  We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. 

Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents. Any answers that are not supported on a resume will not be counted.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Irregular working hours may be required to include early shift, late shift, evenings, weekends and holidays when the need arises. Are you available to work all shifts including on weekends and holidays?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. The position requires the incumbent to have strong customers service skills. How many years of related to customer service have you documented on your resume?
 A. I have more than two (2) years of related customer service experience.
 B. I have one (1) to two (2) years of related customer service experience.
 C. I have less than one (1) year of related customer service experience.
 D. I do not have related customer service experience.
3. How much documented experience do you possess of work-related experience in a bar operation?
 A. I have two (2) plus years serving in a bartender role.
 B. I have one (1) to two (2) years serving in a bartender role.
 C. I have less than one (1) year experience serving in a bartender role.
 D. No documented experience
4. How much documented experience do you possess with cash handling, operating a casher register and credit card processing?
 A. I have two plus years of documented experience with the above working for the Department of Defense (MWR).
 B. I have two (2) or more years' experience as described above.
 C. I have one (1) to two (2) years' experience as described above.
 D. I have six (6) months to one (1) year experience as described above.
 E. I have no documented experience with cash handling, credit card processing or operating a cash register.
5. Do you have documented experience on your resume / application with mixing and serving a variety of alcoholic beverages?
 A. Yes, my resume reflects less than one (1) year experience in properly mixing and serving a variety of alcoholic beverages.
 B. Yes, my resume reflects between one (1) year and three (3) years of experience in properly mixing and serving a variety of alcoholic beverages.
 C. Yes, my resume reflects between three (3) years and five (5) years of experience in properly mixing and serving a variety of alcoholic beverages.
 D. No, I do not have any documented experience with properly mixing and or serving alcoholic beverages.
6. How many years of documented experience do you possess with leading or supervising a full-service bar?
 A. I have more than three (3) years of experience in the role of a lead bartender; to include supervising at least 3 or more staff members.
 B. I have at least two (2) years to three (3) years of experience in the role of a lead bartender; to include supervising at least 3 or more staff members.
 C. I have less than two (2) years of experience in performing the duties of a lead bartender.
 D. I have no experience serving as a lead bartender.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected