Position Title
Financial Analyst
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
25-DO-12766804 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 31, 2025 to Thursday, August 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other
3. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
4. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
6. Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Specialized experience for the GS-15: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as demonstrated, working experience in ALL of the following:
Gathering, analyzing, and interpreting financial market (fixed-income) and economic information and data; AND
Independently resolving analytical, technical, and operational issues related to economics, financing, or fixed-income markets; AND
Providing informed insight into the dynamics and relationships of financial (fixed-income) markets, financing conditions for sovereigns or corporates, and the economy; AND
Experience demonstrating proficient use of Excel, VBA, R, Python, SAS or similar systems.
1. Do you meet the specialized experience, for the GS-15 level, as stated in the vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Which of the following best describes your experience?
 A. I have experience making actionable recommendations to senior management based on that research an analysis related to sovereign or corporate financing, financial operations, monetary policy, or regulatory policy.
 B. I have experience in research and analysis for fixed-income products and markets and in the optimization of fixed-income portfolios
 C. I have followed research and analysis for fixed income markets.
 D. None of the above
3. From the choices below please select all subjects that you have experience researching or analyzing.
 A. Inflation-linked markets and products
 B. International fixed-income markets
 C. Asset-swaps/Derivatives
 D. Relative-value trading
 E. Treasury bills/repo markets
 F. Floating Rate Notes
 G. Bilateral Outreach with Institutional Investors on matters related to sovereign debt issuance
 H. Bilateral outreach with sovereign debt issuers/GSE issuers/ or corporate issuers
 I. Central Bank Monetary Policies
 J. None of the above
4. Which of the following best describes your experience regarding central bank operations?
 A. I have done analysis on and written policy documents (information and recommendation memos) for executives or senior government policy officials regarding sovereign debt auctions, secondary market trading of sovereign securities, and central bank monetary policy operations.
 B. I have provided support for individuals writing policy documents (information and recommendation memos) for executives or senior government policy officials regarding fixed-income markets.
 C. I am familiar with the central bank policies and their effect on fixed-income markets.
 D. None of the above.
5. Which of the following best describes your experience regarding sovereign debt auctions or primary market issuance of fixed-income instruments?
 A. I have done analysis on and written policy documents (information and recommendation memos) for senior policy officials or executives regarding primary market distribution of fixed-income products and understand processes and procedures.
 B. I have provided support for individuals writing policy documents (information and recommendation memos) for senior government policy officials or executives regarding primary market distribution for fixed income products and understand associated processes and procedures.
 C. I am familiar with the primary market distribution of fixed-income products.
 D. None of the above
6. Which of the following best describes your experience analyzing secondary markets for sovereign debt or other fixed income markets?
 A. I have experience analyzing and providing written or verbal commentary to senior policy officials, executives or institutional investors on secondary market transactions of Treasury securities or other fixed-income products in cash markets, and experience in understanding futures and options data, and repo market data.
 B. I am a Treasury or fixed-income product securities investor or trader who regularly trades the secondary market and follows market developments.
 C. I regularly read analytical and strategy reports on the Treasury and other fixed-income markets.
 D. None of the above
7. Which of the following best describes your experience analyzing Inflation-Linked Products?
 A. I have experience analyzing and providing written or verbal commentary to senior policy officials or executives the supply and demand dynamics and price drivers for Inflation-Indexed products and associated derivatives.
 B. I am a securities investor who regularly trades inflation-linked products and I follow inflation-linked market developments
 C. I regularly read analytical and strategy reports on the Treasury market and TIPS securities and global- indexed linked securities.
 D. None of the above
8. From the following list, select all of the experiences that apply.
 A. Experience conducting analyses of economic, monetary and fiscal policies, financial market conditions that effect sovereign debt markets.
 B. Experience writing reports/analyses/memoranda or other documents related to fixed-income financial issues
 C. Experience conducting scenario analysis for a variety of financing options, that consider macroeconomic risks, forecast risks, liquidity risks, and debt portfolio metrics
 D. Experience working and coordinating effectively with stakeholders both within and outside of an organization on debt financing policy issues.
 E. I do not have the knowledge/experience described above
9. From the list below please select all of the statistical software that you have experience with.
 A. Python
 B. SAS or STATA
 C. SQL
 D. Matlab or R
 E. Excel or VBA
 F. None of the above
10. Which of the following best describes your experience building quantitative models and using them for analyzing financial markets or conducting economic research?
 A. I have significant experience developing, building, coding, testing and documenting, analytical models and associated data bases used to conduct research on fixed-income, markets, or financial markets, or to test economic hypotheses.
 B. I am and end user of analytical models that were developed by others and I am skilled in running the models and interpreting the results.
 C. I regularly read analytical reports that present the findings of analytical models and understand the significance of the findings as they may relate to the conclusion of the reports.
 D. None of the above
11. Which of the following policy recommendation topics do you have experience presenting to senior officials?
 A. Macroeconomic
 B. Financing conditions
 C. Financial market developments
 D. None of the above
12. Select the one response that best describes your demonstrated ability to produce written briefings and oral presentations under tight deadlines, to both technical and non-technical audiences.
 A. I have experience in making effective oral and written presentations related to complex technical economic, financial market, financing, and fixed-income investment issues under tight deadlines for use by senior officials, policy makers and colleagues
 B. I have experience in making oral and written presentations for a variety of audiences covering i macroeconomic or fixed-income finance issues
 C. I have experience in making presentations and preparing reports on macroeconomic or finance issues for a variety of audiences
 D. I do not have the knowledge/experience described above
13. Please indicate which of the following types of written products you have produced as a regular part of a job.
 A. Policy and procedural materials
 B. Speeches or talking points
 C. Strategies and plans, which included analysis, findings and recommendations
 D. Responses to external inquiries
 E. Materials communicating organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities for varied audiences
 F. Guidelines or procedural instructions for operational efficiency
 G. Materials explaining or justifying decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations
 H. Comprehensive materials for briefing, meetings, or conferences
 I. None of the above
14. Select the one response that best describes your demonstrated expertise building consensus across various stakeholders.
 A. I have experience eliciting policy or strategy positions, negotiating between parties with conflicting interests and building a consensus opinion as the team or project lead.
 B. I have experience contributing to the development of a consensus opinion as an analyst or support to team or project lead
 C. I have experience on project or policy teams that develop consensus opinions.
 D. I do not have the experience described above
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected