Position Title
BORDER PATROL AGENT (SECTOR PROGRAMS)
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
USBP-IMP(ROB)-12814713-TAM Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 16, 2025 to Wednesday, October 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.


1.
Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you meet one of the statements below?
Currently a U.S. Border Patrol GS-1896 employee serving or has served in a permanent (not temporary) CBP GS-1896-13 BPA or SBPA position with competitive status (if previously served in this role, the change to lower grade action was not a result of an adverse action)
Currently a U.S. Border Patrol GS-1896 employee serving in a permanent CBP GS-1896-14 or higher graded BPA/SBPA position with competitive status, who is willing to take a voluntary change to lower grade
To verify eligibility, CBP employees are strongly encouraged to provide a copy of their most recent SF-50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Have you engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, holding facility, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution as defined in 42 U.S.C. § 1997?
 Yes
 No


2.
Have you been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or where the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse, or have you been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in such activity?
 Yes
 No


3.
If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.


4.
If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.


5.
I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.
The most current version of the Document Type labeled "resume" is the only document that will be considered and it is your responsibility to tailor your resume to explicitly detail how your experience fulfills the general/specialized experience requirements outlined in this job announcement otherwise you could be found not qualified.
Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Be two pages or less in length
Include full legal name
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.


6.
Conviction under Federal, State, or Tribal Court of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or child is disqualifying. An intimate partner means, with respect to a person, the spouse of the person, a former spouse of the person, an individual who is a parent of a child of the person, an individual who cohabitates or has cohabited with the person. Have you ever been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or a child?
 Yes
 No


7.
Are you the subject of any Federal, State, or Tribal court-ordered restraining (protection) order for domestic abuse, including harassing, stalking, or threatening an intimate partner or a child?
 Yes
 No


8.
This position meets the definition of secondary Law Enforcement Officer retirement coverage under the laws and regulations defined in 5 U.S.C. 8331 Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) and General Provisions for Law Enforcement Officers defined in 5 U.S.C. 8402(d), Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS). The criterion is that knowledge, skill and ability in a position deemed to meet primary Law Enforcement Officer special retirement coverage is a mandatory prerequisite to satisfactorily perform the major duties and responsibilities of this job. The conditions for coverage of a secondary position are contained in 5 C.F.R. § 831.904 CSRS and 5 C.F.R. § 842.803 for FERS. As defined by 5 CFR § 831.902 CSRS and 5 CFR § 842.802 FERS, to be eligible for this secondary administrative law enforcement officer Retirement covered position you must have permanently served in a primary law enforcement officer Retirement System covered position, i.e. Border Patrol Agent, GS-1896, CBP Enforcement Officer, GS-1895, Air Interdiction Agent, GS-1881, Marine Interdiction Agent, GS-1801, Aviation Enforcement Agent, GS-1801, or an equivalent private sector law enforcement position.

Do you meet the requirements for a secondary administrative law enforcement position listed above?
 Yes
 No, I understand that by not meeting this requirement that I will be removed from further consideration.


9.
This position requires the ability to operate a Government Owned Vehicle. Do you have a valid, non-restricted driver's license or will you be able to obtain a valid, non-restricted driver's license before the time of appointment?
 Yes
 No


10.
Are you proficient and able to communicate in the Spanish language?
 Yes
 No


11.
Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
The following question will only be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.


1.
Which of the following statements best describes your experience for the GS-13 level?
 I have at least one year of specialized experience performed at the next lower grade level or equivalent, performing duties such as: Collaborating with Border Patrol managers in the collection, formulation, and development of Border Patrol objectives; Reviewing Border Patrol data and program metrics and recommending the use or development of best practices; Assisting with specific projects that included enforcement operations, intelligence collection and reporting, administrative and logistical support; Creating reports utilizing information from Border Patrol databases and operations for purposes of formulating budget recommendations.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙