Position Title
Exceptional Family Member Program Case Liaison
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12768749 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 22, 2025 to Sunday, August 3, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for an Exceptional Family Member Program- (Case Liaison) position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. All education and experience stated in answers must be reflected in resume and/or transcripts.
1. Which of the following do you possess in order to meet the basic requirements of the 0101 Social Science Series?
 A. I have a four-year degree or higher from an accredited college or university in behavioral or social science; or related disciplines appropriate to the position.
 B. I have at least four (4) years of appropriate experience demonstrated to represent acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 C. I have an equivalent combination of education and specialized experience in one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 D. I have no experience with the above.
2. Which of the following do you possess?
 A. I have a master’s degree or equivalent graduate degree or two (2) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree in a subject-matter field appropriate to the position.
 B. I have at least two (2) years of specialized experience working in a case management capacity with families who have members with special needs.
 C. I have an equivalent combination of education (equivalent to a major in the related field) and specialized experience (working in a case management capacity with families who have members with special needs).
 D. I have no experience with the above.
3. How many years of experience do you have updating and retaining required forms and other supporting documentation related to case evaluation and assessment in accordance with policy?
 A. I have 5+ years of experience with the above.
 B. I have 3 to 5 years of experience with the above.
 C. I have less than 3 years of experience with the above.
 D. I have no experience with the above.
4. How many years of experience do you have developing and facilitating training or delivering presentations in person or virtually?
 A. I have 5+ years of experience with the above.
 B. I have 3 to 5 years of experience with the above.
 C. I have less than 3 years of experience with the above.
 D. I have no experience with the above.
5. How many years of experience do you have researching and analyzing trends to identify issues to share with leadership, management and/or action groups?
 A. I have 5+ years of experience with the above.
 B. I have 3 to 5 years of experience with the above.
 C. I have less than 3 years of experience with the above.
 D. I have no experience with the above.
6. Which describes your experience with the Exceptional Family Member Program (EFMP)?
 A. I have experience with the above within the Department of Navy (DON).
 B. I have experience with the above within the Department of Defense (DoD), but outside of the DON.
 C. I have experience with the above within the federal government, but outside of the DoD.
 D. I have experience with the above within state or local government, or private industry.
 E. I have no experience as described above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected