Position Title
Lead Law Enforcement Specialist (Driver Instructor)
Agency
Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers
Announcement Number
FLETC-CTO/DMD-25-12680977 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 28, 2025 to Friday, August 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you currently employed as a Federal civilian employee with the Department of Homeland Security who has held or currently holds, a permanent competitive service position in the federal government with equal or higher promotion potential as this position?

To verify your eligibility as a current DHS employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status.

Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1), or, your status is in the excepted service (Position Occupied field is 2) and you are eligible under a valid interchange agreement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a currently employed as a Federal civilian employee with the Department of Homeland Security in the Competitive Service?

To verify your eligibility as a current DHS employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status.

Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1) or, your status is in the excepted service (Position Occupied field is 2) and you are eligible under a valid interchange agreement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
FLETC Data Questions
1. How did you learn about this Department of Homeland Security (DHS) job opportunity announcement?
--Select-- 
--Select--
Career Fair
Met a FLETC representative at a recruitment event
Magazine
Newspaper
Radio
TV
Poster
Private Employment Office
State Employment Office (Unemployment Office)
Agency Human Resources Development (bulletin board or other announcement)
Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college
Federal, state, or local Job Information Center
Religious organization
College, university, or career placement counselor
Friend or relative working for this agency
Friend or relative not working for this agency
USAJOBS
Professional Association
Publication
Conference
College Event
Private information service
LinkedIn
Other
2. Select the rating level you received, as applicable to your agency's performance management system, for your last performance appraisal. Please provide a copy of your last performance appraisal.
 A. Outstanding | Achieved Excellence
 B. Exceeds Fully Successful/Highly Successful | Exceeded Expectations
 C. Fully Successful/Pass | Achieved Expectations
 D. Minimally Satisfactory/Minimally Acceptable
 E. Unacceptable/Fail
 F. None of the above
3. Select the types of awards you have received within the last three years.
 A. Quality Step Increase
 B. Special Act or Time Off Award
 C. Performance Award
 D. Honorary Award
 E. Letter of Commendation
 F. None of the above
4. List any education and/or training related to this position (do not provide copies of certificates).
5. I have thoroughly reviewed the 'How to Apply/Required Documents' & 'Qualifications' sections of this Vacancy Announcement to determine which supplemental documents to submit. This may include: Transcripts to verify undergraduate/graduate education; A Current/Non-Award SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, noting current position title, series, grade, position occupied, tenure, highest salary (including basic pay) and duty location if I am a current/former Federal employee; DD-214 if I am a veteran (and SF-15/VA Letter if applicable), etc. I understand that failure to fax or upload required documents by the vacancy announcement's closing date may result in loss of consideration. Answer to this question is required.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. I am willing and able to possess and maintain a valid state-issued driver's license to conduct official government business.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2.

Are you applying for a promotion? It is a promotion if you are applying for a general schedule (GS) position that is higher than the grade level you currently hold or previously held in the past. To be considered for a promotion, you must provide SF-50(s) that shows that you have held the next lower GS grade for at least one year. SF-50s that have an effective date within the past year (e.g., General Adjustment SF-50 from this year or Within Rate/Grade Increases (WRI/WGI) SF-50 within a year) do not clearly show that you meet the one-year time-in-grade requirement. That means if you submit an SF-50 that is dated within the last year, you must submit another SF-50 that is dated more than one year ago to clearly demonstrate you meet the time-in-grade requirements.

 A. Yes, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a promotion. I have submitted one or two SF-50(s) that show I have held the next lower GS grade or equivalent (non-GS pay system) for at least one year.
 B. No, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a GS grade that I currently hold or have held in the past. I have submitted an SF-50 to support this claim.
 C. Yes, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a promotion but I have not held the next lower grade or equivalent (non-GS pay system) for at least one year. I was recently promoted to my current grade level within the last year so I do not meet the time-in-grade requirements for promotion.
 D. No, I am not a GS employee and I have not been a GS employee within the last year (e.g. I am in a pay band, or I am an FWS employee, or I have never worked for the federal government) so this is not applicable to me.
3. This position is subject to Lautenberg Amendment. Persons convicted of misdemeanor crimes of domestic violence are prohibited from occupying this position. Have you been convicted of a crime in domestic violence?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I am willing and able to undergo pre-appointment drug testing for illegal drug use.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I am willing to complete an initial and annual physical examination that measures visual, hearing, and physical acuity.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. In order to be considered for this position you must meet one of the selective placement factors. From the list below select the statement(s) that describes your experience.
 A. I have held a position as a sworn law enforcement officer, or agent with full arrest authority in the prevention, detection, apprehension, detention and/or investigation of felony and/or misdemeanor violations of Federal, state, local, tribal, or military criminal laws.
 B. I have held a position in the 1801 occupational series.
 C. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. Have you graduated from a law enforcement academy? If graduated from an academy, please ensure your resume contains the academy's name and location (city, state) as well as your graduation date (MM/DD/YYYY).

For U.S. Coast Guard personnel only - If you were certified through the Boarding Officer Personnel Qualifications Standard Certification Program (PQS), you must include the certification date in your resume. You may be asked to provide a copy of the certification. Failure to provide this information in your resume may result in your loss of consideration.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. From the options below, select the one statement that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for a Lead Law Enforcement Specialist (Driver Instructor), GS-1801-13. NOTE: Your resume must support your claim of specialized experience, i.e. where, when and how you performed the work, or you may be found ineligible.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-12) or pay band in the federal service, or equivalent experience in the private or public sector instructing driver topical areas to include: emergency response; non-emergency vehicle operation; traffic stops; pursuits; evasive driving; and/or precision intervention techniques.
 B. None of the above.
For the following questions, choose the statement that best describes your experience with the following task. Please ensure your response is supported by your resume
4. From the list below, select all the topical areas for which you have experience instructing.
 A. Emergency Response Driving (EVOC)
 B. Skid Control/Recovery
 C. Driving While Intoxicated/Impaired Investigations
 D. Standardized Field Sobriety Test
 E. Traffic Crash Investigation
 F. Protective Detail Operations (motorcade, vehicle ambush counter measures, etc.)
 G. None of the above
5. Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience evaluating student performance and providing feedback.
 A. I do not have experience or demonstrated capability in performing this activity, but I am willing to learn.
 B. I have limited experience in performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require additional guidance, instruction or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 C. I have a fair amount of experience and/or demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform this activity more effectively.
 D. I have considerable experience and/or demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively.
 E. I have extensive experience and/or demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I am considered an expert; I can train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor.
6. Choose the answer that best describes your experience composing summaries based upon your research for use in updating existing course material, lesson plans, training scenarios or evaluation criteria for law enforcement subject matter.
 A. I have no experience researching law enforcement subject matter and applying its use.
 B. I have experience in research and providing summary information for subjects other than law enforcement subject matter.
 C. I have a fair amount of experience in researching law enforcement subject matter and applying its use.
 D. I have extensive amount of experience in researching law enforcement subject matter and applying its use.
7. From the list below select all the topical areas for which you have experience developing or revising curriculum related content.
 A. Emergency Response Driving (EVOC)
 B. Skid Control/ Recovery
 C. Driving While Intoxicated/Impaired Investigations
 D. Standardized Field Sobriety Testing
 E. Traffic Crash Investigation
 F. Protective Detail Operations (motorcade, vehicle ambush counter measures, etc.)
 G. None of the above
8. From the list below, select your experience leading others in the completion of a project.
 A. I have not had experience, education, or training in leadership.
 B. I have completed formal education or training in leadership but have not yet performed leadership activities on the job.
 C. I have a moderate level of experience leading others with a minimal number of projects, or personnel.
 D. I have extensive experience leading others including projects of significant scale and personnel.
9. From the list below, select your experience in monitoring the workload of others, tracking their progress toward organizational goals, and developing their skillset.
 A. I have not had experience with this activity.
 B. I have completed formal education or training in this activity but have not yet performed these activities on the job.
 C. I have a moderate level of experience with this activity.
 D. I have extensive experience with this activity and am considered an expert in developing others.
10. From the list below, select your experience providing completed staff work, or conducting administrative activities for an organization.
 A. I have not had experience with this activity.
 B. I have completed formal education or training in this activity but have not yet performed these activities on the job
 C. I have a moderate level of experience with administrative functions of an organization. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction, or experience to be more effective.
 D. I have extensive experience with this activity and am considered an expert in conducting administrative tasks and providing associated documentation of the work. I have been called upon to provide guidance to others in administrative tasks for my organization.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
11. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, ALL of the information provided on this application is true, accurate, and complete, and that this application for employment is made in good faith. I understand that a false statement on any part of this application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that I may be punished by fine or imprisonment for falsification of my employment application (18 USC 1001). I understand that information I give may be investigated as allowed by law or Executive order. Do you understand and agree to all the above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected