Position Title
Blind Rehabilitation Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12754728-25-DMD Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 9, 2025 to Thursday, October 9, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with the Department of Veterans Affairs. The following assessment questionnaire is used to determine if you meet the basic requirements for this vacancy. Please choose the most appropriate answer in response to the following questions.
BASIC REQUIREMENTS- The basic requirements for employment as a VHA Blind Rehabilitation Specialist are prescribed by the Blind Rehabilitation Specialist Qualification Standard - GS-0601 - March 13, 2019 (formerly VA Handbook 5005/109, Part II, Appendix G41) . To qualify for appointment as a Blind Rehabilitation Specialist in VHA, all applicants must meet the following.
1. Basic Education - Applicants must meet one of the following minimum education requirements to qualify as a Blind Rehabilitation Specialist (BRS):
A bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university with a major field of study in blind or vision rehabilitation, closely related program in rehabilitation, special education for the visually impaired, family and consumer science education, or technology and industrial arts education; -OR-
A bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university (without a major field of study as outlined above) that included, or was supplemented by, at least one of the following:
At least 30 semester hours of directly related, upper level undergraduate courses (e.g., at least 200-course level or higher, or as identified by the college or university).
One full year of directly related graduate level coursework (typically at least 15 - 18 semester hours).
A certificate from an accredited college or university in the core curriculum in orientation and mobility, vision rehabilitation therapy, assistive technology for blind and visually impaired individuals, or low vision therapy and a directly related practicum/internship in the occupation, either included in the degree or post-degree.
Foreign Graduates must have proof of a minimum of a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university (or foreign equivalent, as verified through an independent credential evaluation company), with a specialization in blind rehabilitation.

You must submit a copy of your Transcripts with your application. The copy of Transcripts may be official or unofficial, however should contain Your Name, the Institutions Name, City and State as well as the Degree earned and the DATE the degree was conferred.

We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

Do you meet one of the Basic Education Requirements as described above?
 A. Yes, I meet one of the Basic Education Requirements as described above.
 B. No, I do NOT meet any of the Basic Education Requirements and acknowledge that my application may not receive further consideration.
2. CERTIFICATION: Applicants must possess at least one active, current, full and unrestricted certification to be eligible for appointment at the GS-11 level and above.

NOTE - No certification is required at the GS-09 level.

Certification must be granted by the Academy for Certification of Vision Rehabilitation & Education Professionals (ACVREP), or another equivalent, closely related professional credential in special education or rehabilitation.

NOTE: The ACVREP administers four certification programs: Low Vision Therapy, Orientation and Mobility, Assistive Technology Instruction and Vision Rehabilitation Therapy. BRS who provide the following service must obtain certification granted by ACVREP and may use the designation for the certification they hold (as listed below):
Orientation and mobility training - Certified Orientation and Mobility Specialists (COMS).
Communication and daily living therapy - Certified Vision Rehabilitation Therapists (CVRT).
Low vision therapy - Certified Low Vision Therapists (CLVT).
Assistive Technology - Certified Assistive Technology Instructional Specialists (CATIS).

Do you possess the Certification (REQUIRED for GS-11 level and above) as described in one of the preceding options?

Please submit your ACVREP Certification with your application.
 A. Yes, I possess one or more of the Certifications as described above.
 B. No, I do NOT currently possess any of the Certifications for appointment at the GS-11 level or above. However, I acknowledge that I may be considered at the GS-09 level.
GRADE REQUIREMENTS: Select the statement below that best describes your ability to meet the requirements for a Blind Rehabilitation Specialist position.

NOTE - In addition to the education and experience required at each grade level below, the candidate must also demonstrate all of the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) as listed within the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement. The KSA's for each grade level may also be reviewed within the GS-0601 - Blind Rehabilitation Specialist Qualification Standard.
3. Blind Rehabilitation Specialist - GS-09 (Entry Level) - Experience -OR- Education -AND- Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs).
NOTE: NO certification is required at this level.

Experience - In addition to meeting the basic requirements, applicants must possess a Bachelor's degree and completion of one (1) year of experience

-OR-

Education - Completion of at least two full years of progressive graduate education or a master's degree in a field directly related to the position.

-AND-

In addition to the experience  and education above the candidate must demonstrate all the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) for the GS-09 level:
(a) Knowledge of policies and procedures of the blind/vision rehabilitation service.
(b) Knowledge of administration and interpretation of assessments and evaluations in blind/vision rehabilitation.
(c) Ability to develop a basic written blind/vision rehabilitation plan from assessment results and develop more complex plans with consultation from supervisor.
(d) Skill in instructing [Veterans] and families in a meaningful rehabilitation program and applying blind/vision rehabilitation therapeutic techniques.
(e) Ability to recommend appropriate blind/vision prosthetic devices for Veterans within the scope of practice.
(f) Ability to serve as team coordinator for assigned Veterans during their rehabilitation programs.

Do you possess the Experience -OR- Education -AND- the KSAs required to be appointed at the GS-09 grade level?
 A. Yes, I possess a Bachelor's degree or higher AND meet the one (1) year of experience. Additionally, I meet the KSA's required at the GS-09 level.
 B. Yes, I have completed at least two (2) full years of progressive graduate education or a master?s degree in a field directly related to the position. Additionally, I meet the KSA's required at the GS-09 level.
 C. No, I DO NOT meet either of the Grade Education/Experience requirements, and/or I do NOT meet the KSA's required at the GS-09 level and acknowledge that my application may not receive further consideration.
4. Blind Rehabilitation Specialist - GS-11 (Full Performance Level) - Experience -OR- Education -AND- Certification -AND- Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs).

Experience - In addition to meeting the basic requirements, completion of one (1) year of progressively complex experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade.

-OR-

Education - Three years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Doctoral Degree; or Doctoral Degree in Blind Rehabilitation or a directly related field.

-AND-

Certification  - Certification is required at the GS-11 grade level and above. Staff BRS candidates must meet the certification requirements as stated within the Qualifications section of this announcement and/or the GS-0601 Qualification Standard. BRSs at the GS-11 grade level must have at least one certification from ACVREP or a related, equivalent, professional certification.

-AND-

In addition to the education and experience above the candidate must demonstrate all the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) for the GS-11 level:
(a) Knowledge and understanding of highly specialized complex evaluations and diagnostic tests and procedures of blind/vision rehabilitation.
(b) Ability to properly assess Veterans having diverse and multiple disabilities to make recommendations for blind/vision rehabilitation therapeutic interventions.
(c) Skill in writing a blind/vision rehabilitation plan that includes evaluation information from multiple disciplines with observable, measurable goals and that identifies specific outcomes.
(d) Skill in instructional methods and learning principles.
(e) Ability to employ interventions and unusual motivational techniques and coordinate treatment with other professionals to achieve outcomes of the rehabilitation plan.
(f) Ability to recommend appropriate blind/vision rehabilitation prosthetic devices for Veterans within scope of practice, making adaptations and modifications as required.

Do you possess either the Experience -OR- Education -AND- the Certification -AND- Do you meet the KSAs required to be appointed at the GS-11 grade level?
 A. Yes, I meet the Experience -OR- the Education -AND- the Certification Requirements. Additionally, I meet the KSAs at the GS-11 level.
 B. No, I DO NOT meet the Experience -OR- Education, AND/OR I do NOT meet the Certification Requirement, AND/OR I do NOT meet the KSA's at the GS-11 level and acknowledge that my application may not receive further consideration at the GS-11 level.
Resume Reminder: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: - Job title - Duties (be as detailed as possible) - Month and year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) - Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.
Transcripts Reminder: If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) you must submit a copy of your transcripts (official or unofficial) with your application. Be sure your name, name of the school attended, dates attended, and any degree conferred, or certificate issued is stated on the transcript. This information is used to verify qualifications and accreditation.
Professional License and/or Certification Reminder: You must submit a copy of a current active license or certification. Expired certifications will not be considered.
SF-50 Reminder: Federal Employees must provide their most current SF 50 to verify eligibility and show position, grade, and status. "Award" SF-50s are NOT acceptable. Please make sure you submit all required documentation before the closing date of the announcement.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected