Position Title
Building Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
NOLA 78-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 4, 2025 to Monday, September 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. Are you a current CNIC NAF employee?

*If you answer yes to this question, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Personnel Action Report (PAR/SF-50) showing your status as a CNIC employee. Failure to provide documentation to support your claim may result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I am claiming military spousal preference and have provided the required documents .
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I am willing and able to accept a "Mission Essential" position. This entails continued performance of duties and responsibilities designated as mission essential functions of an activity.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 50 pounds.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Building Manager position with the Unaccompanied Housing Department. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. All claimed education and experience must be supported by resume and/or transcripts.
1. Which of the following do you possess in order to meet the basic requirements of the 1173 Housing Management Series?

 A. I possess one (1) full year of graduate level education. (Transcripts included)
 B. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience as stated above.
 C. I have a combination of specialized experience and graduate level education. (Transcripts included)
 D. I do not have any of the above.
2. How many years of experience do you have performing basic maintenance tasks, such as changing light bulbs, lubricating door locks, tightening screws, minor furnishings repairs, cleaning lint traps on dryer vents or similar duties? All experience must be documented on resume to receive credit.
 A. I possess no experience with the above maintenance tasks.
 B. I possess less than one (1) year of experience performing maintenance tasks.
 C. I possess between one (1) and three (3) years of experience performing maintenance tasks.
 D. I possess more than three (3) years of experience performing maintenance tasks.
3. How many years of experience do you have applying basic math (e.g., addition, subtraction) and reading comprehension skills in a work setting?
 A. I possess no experience with the above-mentioned.
 B. I possess less than one (1) year of experience with the above-mentioned.
 C. I possess between one (1) and three (3) years of experience with the above-mentioned.
 D. I possess more than three (3) years of experience with the above-mentioned.
4. How would you rate your experience using personal computers and Microsoft Office applications (e.g., Word, Excel, Outlook) in a work environment?
 A. I do not have experience using Microsoft Office applications.
 B. I have used Microsoft Office occasionally for basic tasks – less than 6 months experience (e.g., typing documents, reading email).
 C. I have six (6) months to two (2) years of experience using Microsoft Office to complete regular work tasks (e.g., creating documents, managing email, data entry).
 D. I have two (2) or more years of experience using Microsoft Office applications as a regular part of my job responsibilities.
5. How many years of experience do you have applying basic principles, concepts, standards, and regulations of customer service in a work setting?
 A. I possess no experience in customer service.
 B. I possess less than one (1) year of experience in customer service.
 C. I possess between one (1) and three (3) years of experience in customer service.
 D. I possess more than three (3) years of experience in customer service.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected