Position Title
GOLF LABORER
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12811569 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, October 6, 2025 to Friday, April 3, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Do you possess a valid driver's license issued by a U.S. state or outlying territory?
 Yes, and I am also able to operate manual transmission vehicles.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you willing and able to perform physical exertions such as standing, walking, turning, twisting, stooping, reaching, lifting, climbing, balancing, carrying, pushing, pulling, hearing, seeing, smelling, lifting 45 pounds without assistance, lifting 100 pounds with assistance, working indoors and outdoors subject to weather extremes and frequent direct sun, using personal protective equipment, and exposure to cut, bruise, burn, scrape, plant, and insect hazards?
 Yes
 No


3.
How much experience working at a golf course have you documented on your resume?
 2 or more years
 1-2 years
 less than 1 year
 No experience


4.
How much experience cleaning and maintaining building interiors, bathrooms, and similar areas have you documented on your resume?
 2 or more years
 1 to 2 years
 less than 1 year
 no experience


5.
How much experience with lawn care, mowers, trimmers, hand tools, maintenance equipment, turf equipment, and similar work have you documented on your resume?
 2 or more years
 1 to 2 years
 less than 1 years
 no experience


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙