Position Title
SUPERVISORY IT SPECIALIST (INFOSEC/SYSADMIN)
Agency
United States Fleet Forces Command
Announcement Number
ST-12790353-25-TDH Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 29, 2025 to Thursday, September 4, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you currently employed in the Department of the Navy (Navy or Marine Corps) as a permanent competitive or excepted service employee?

If you answer yes to this question, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent SF-50 showing you are employed in the DON AND the SF-50 reflecting the highest grade held if not reflected on your most recent SF-50.

If you are a DoD employee, you can obtain a copy of your SF- 50(s) from MyBiz. Failure to provide documentation that fully supports your claim will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a Veteran who served on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces and were separated under honorable conditions? 

You are an eligible veteran if:
-you served on active duty for a period of more than 180 days and were discharged or released therefrom with other than a dishonorable discharge -OR-
-you were discharged or released from active duty because of a service connected disability -OR-
-you were in a reserve component under an order to active duty pursuant to section 12301(a), (d), or (g), 12302, or 12304 of title 10, served on active duty during a period of war or in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge is authorized & was discharged or released from such duty with other than a dishonorable discharge -OR-
-you were discharged or released from active duty by reason of a sole survivorship discharge (as that term is defined in section 1174(i) of title 10).

You must provide a DD-214 "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing all dates of service, as well as character of service (e.g., Honorable, General, etc.). 
If you are a disabled veteran you must submit one of the following:
-an official statement, dated 1991 or later, from the Department of Veteran Affairs or branch of the Armed Forces, certifying to the present existence of the service connected disability, the percentage and nature of the service connected disability(s). 
-an official statement, dated 1991 or later, from the Department of Veteran Affairs or branch of the Armed Forces, certifying the receipt of a non-service connected disability pension
-an official statement, dated 1991 or later, from the Department of Veteran Affairs or branch of the Armed Forces, certifying retirement due to a service-connected disability, or a transfer to the Disability Retirement List.

Failure to provide supporting documentation will result in a rating of ineligible. For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.


 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C. This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation.

NOTE 1: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist found here and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.

NOTE 2: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years. I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.

NOTE 1: If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist found here and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade.

NOTE 2: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following:

I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  Spouses may exercise their spouse preference and priority status through the application-based process up to 30 calendar days prior to the military sponsor's reporting date to the new duty station or upon relocation anytime thereafter during the sponsor's tour. Spouses who do not initially relocate with their sponsor cannot exercise spouse preference and priority status until they are actually residing in the commuting area of the sponsor's duty station.

NOTE 3:  You must include a completed copy of the UPDATED Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist found here along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP. Acceptable documentation of your preference eligibility includes at a minimum: A copy of the PCS orders, and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity. I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation.

NOTE 1: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist found here and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability.

NOTE 2: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Where did you hear about this job? We know you saw this announcement on USAJOBS, but did you hear about it somewhere else first?

Please tell us where you first heard about this job.
--Select-- 
--Select--
National Call to Maritime Service/Fleet Week
Department of the Navy (DON) Agency website/internet
Email from the Department of the Navy
LinkedIn
CareerBuilder.com
Indeed.com
Monster.com
Facebook
X (Formerly known as Twitter)
USAJOBS website
Job Supervisor
A Navy/Marine Corps employee, not the position supervisor
Friend or Family Member, not a Navy/Marine Corps employee
Contract employee
College/University Career Placement Office
College Alumni
Employment Office
Newspaper Advertisement
Job Career Fair
American Association of People with Disabilities
National Association of Asian American Professionals
2024 Federal Interagency Military Spouse Career Expo
2. Are you a current or former political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316 (relating to the Executive Schedule)?
OR
Are you a current or former Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who serves/served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch?
OR
Are you a current or former non-career SES, Limited Term SES, or Limited Emergency SES in the Executive Branch?
OR
Are you a current or former political appointee in the Executive Branch?

The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. A recent or former political appointee is defined as someone who held a political appointment covered by OPM's policy within the previous 5-year period. If you are currently employed, or have been employed within the last 5 years, in any one of the categories above, you must disclose this information. Failure to disclose this information could result in disciplinary action including removal from Federal Service.

For more information see https://www.chcoc.gov/content/political-appointees-and-career-civil-service-positions-4 and https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/oversight-activities/faqs/

If you answer Yes to this question, you must provide your current or past SF50 for the political appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. Are you currently qualified in the Cyberspace Workforce work role and proficiency level listed for this position in the announcement?

NOTE: If you are qualified in a different work role or at a different proficiency level, please note this information in your resume.

For more information, please visit https://www.doncio.navy.mil/contentview.aspx?id=7991
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. Please select one response that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for a GG-2210-12, SUPV IT SPECIALIST (INFOSEC/SYSADMIN).
 A. Applicants must have directly applicable experience that demonstrates the possession of knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies necessary for immediate success in the position. Qualifying experience may have been acquired in any public or private sector job, but will clearly demonstrate past experience in the application of the particular competencies or knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to successfully perform the duties of the position. Such experience is typically in or directly relates to the work of the position to be filled. You must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below: 1. Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail. Examples of experience demonstrating this competency include: Using significate judgement, initiative, and resourcefulness when deviating from established methods to address the myriad of issues that arise with an active Video Teleconference (VTC) team. 2. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services. Experience demonstrating this competency include: Promoting and sharing lessons learned and methods developed to improve the capability and reliability of VTC. 3. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately. Examples of experience demonstrating this competency include: Providing face-to-face conferences and exchange of data with personnel from either point-to-point or multiple sites and locations supporting shore and facilities and the Fleet. 4. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations. Examples of experience demonstrating this competency include: Addressing weaknesses and vulnerabilities in the system by analyzing trends and patterns. In addition to my experience demonstrating the four competencies above, I have qualifying experience such as: -Experience managing the operation of a Video Teleconferencing (VTC) over Secure Internet Protocol (VTCoSIP) and Voice over Secure Internet Protocol (VoSIP) networks. -Experience overseeing the installation and operation of Voice and VTC equipment and troubleshooting Local Area Network (LAN)-based and Integrated Service Digital Network (ISDN)-based video equipment. -Experience troubleshooting Windows servers and CISCO routers and switches. -Experience conducting risk and vulnerability assessment of installed information systems.
 B. I do not have experience demonstrating the four required competencies AND qualifying experience as described above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. Do you certify that all of your responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate; and do you accept that if your supporting documentation does not support one or more of your responses to the questionnaire that your application may be rated lower or you may be removed from further consideration?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected