Position Title
Administrative Officer
Agency
Government Accountability Office
Announcement Number
FIELD OPS-25-IMP-12764072 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 14, 2025 to Friday, August 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you currently employed by the Government Accountability Office?
This includes Career/Career-Conditional employees serving on a non-temporary appointment. This does not include employees on temporary or term appointments.

To determine if you are eligible, your most recent SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action form should reflect:
career or career-conditional, Tenure of 1 or 2 in box 24 AND
status in the excepted service, Position Occupied of 2 in box 34.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) with your application.
Your SF-50 must include your position title, pay plan/series/band and tenure. Please be aware that award SF-50's may not include this pertinent information. If your last SF-50 is an award SF-50, please additionally submit the next most recent non-award SF-50 that does include the above fields.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Applicants must have one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience at the next lower level/band, equivalent to the AC-III, PT-I, PE-I, PA-I, CS-I or GS-11 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is experience that demonstrates knowledge of and the ability to perform a wide variety of administrative functions and services such as handling routine building maintenance issues, applying physical and information security policies and procedures, and/or monitoring, maintaining, and reconciling an office budget.  Prior professional experience must demonstrate the ability to plan, organize, and control work involving diverse administrative activities, as well as the ability to gain cooperation and coordinate the work of others. Customer service skills as well as written and oral communication skills are also required. Do you meet the qualifications requirements of this position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
1a. Please provide a short narrative supporting your answer to the above question, including information on the circumstances, the complexity of the work, the length of time, and organizations where this work was performed. Maximum length of 4000 characters, including spaces. (limit 3,500 characters)
2. Which statement best describes your experience leading others and carrying out assignments through lower-level staff members?
 A. As an in-line supervisor, I have directed and planned work assignments of administrative and/or technical staff. I assigned work, established priorities, and ensured timely and quality completion of work. I evaluated the work of employees, provided advice and counsel to employees, heard and resolved concerns from employees, identified employee training needs, contributed to the development of performance expectations for employees and sought ways to improve work.
 B. I have served as a senior technical specialist working with lower-level employees carrying out the functions of the office. I observed performance and provided feedback to my supervisor on employees’ assignments. In the absence of my supervisor, I am often left in charge for short and long periods performing both technical and supervisory functions.
 C. I have served as a senior technical specialist working with lower-level employees and/or peers in carrying out the functions of the office. I provided coaching, mentoring, and review of employees assignments and/or task team projects.
 D. I have served as a senior technical specialist, but I do not have any experience carrying out technical assignments through lower-level employees.
 E. My experience is not defined in any of the above.
3. This position requires the incumbent to monitor, maintain and reconcile the field office budget. Select ALL of the responses that describe your background and experience.
 A. I have prepared or reviewed the preparation of purchase orders and/or simplified procurement for supplies, external training, equipment, furniture and/or training.
 B. I have prepared or reviewed reconciled expenditure reports.
 C. I have certified receipt of supplies and equipment.
 D. I have served as a payment approver for purchase cards and/or contracts.
 E. I have determined the correct budget classification to use when tracking purchases.
 F. My experience is not described in any of the above.
4. This position requires the incumbent to apply substantive knowledge of federal regulations and policies affecting GAO business processes. Select ALL of the responses that describe your background and experience.
 A. I have experience working with federal time/attendance regulations and policies.
 B. I have experience working with federal official travel regulations and policies.
 C. I have experience working with federal procurement regulations and policies.
 D. I have federal training pertaining to regulations and policies related to time/attendance, travel, and/or procurement, but I do not have on the job experience working with these regulations/policies.
 E. I do not have federal training or experience in regulations and policies related to time/attendance, travel, and/or procurement, but I do have non-federal training or experience in these areas that would be relevant to this position.
 F. None of the above.
5. This position requires the incumbent to deal professionally and courteously with management officials and staff at all levels and in multiple physical locations in order to provide direct assistance. Please select the one answer that best describes your ability to provide quality customer service to employees.
 A. I skillfully anticipate customer needs and independently provide quality and timely products and services. I often independently resolve non-routine issues.
 B. I provide quality and timely products and services to customers and resolve routine issues with minimal guidance.
 C. Under close guidance, I provide quality and timely products and services to customers.
 D. I have no customer service experience.
6. The work of this position involves managing multiple assignments, conflicting priorities, and multi-tasking, all while maintaining quality customer service and meeting various deadlines. Select the one answer that best describes your background and experience.
 A. I have demonstrated experience working effectively under pressure where fluctuating deadlines and priorities often occur, while maintaining a customer service focus, meeting competing deadlines, and solving program issues concurrently.
 B. I have demonstrated experience setting priorities and balancing multiple/competing work demands, all while maintaining a customer service focus.
 C. I have demonstrated experience accomplishing tasks while maintaining quality customer service.
 D. I have demonstrated experience in accomplishing tasks however, customer service has not been a requirement.
7. This position requires the incumbent to conduct briefings or training--formally and informally--to staff on a variety of topics including administrative processes and security issues. Select the one answer that best describes your experience
 A. I have conducted both formal and informal briefings or trainings that were accurate, clear, and tailored to a variety of audiences and on a range of topics.
 B. I have conducted formal and informal briefings or trainings that were accurate and clear to groups or individuals on routine topics.
 C. I have conducted informal briefings or training that were accurate and clear to small groups or individuals on straightforward topics.
 D. My experience is not defined in any of the above.
8. This position requires the incumbent to ensure that routine building maintenance issues are resolved in a timely manner; to know and follow property control procedures including inventory control; and, to assist with office renovations or relocation projects. Select ALL of the items that describe your experience.
 A. I have overseen timely and cost-effective routine building maintenance for issues such as effectiveness of janitorial services or equipment maintenance scheduling.
 B. I have training or experience in property control methods for personal property.
 C. I have overseen or conducted physical property inventories.
 D. I have assisted with the planning and/or implementation of office renovations or relocations.
 E. My experience is not defined in any of the above.
9. This position requires the incumbent to prepare written communications for a variety of audiences and purposes. Select ALL of the responses that describe your background and experience
 A. I have responded to complex, technical, and/or sensitive questions about administrative services or procedures with timely, accurate, clear, and concise written explanations.
 B. I have developed graphics that effectively convey key points with minimal supporting explanation.
 C. I have written or reviewed protocols or procedures for administrative processes to ensure they meet the needs of the target audience.
 D. My experience is not described in any of the above.
10. Select ALL of the following software categories in which you are able to create and modify products and use the software as a tool in performing the tasks required of this position.
 A. Word Processing (e.g., Word)
 B. Spreadsheets (e.g., Excel)
 C. Databases (e.g., Access)
 D. Graphics/Presentation Tools (e.g., PowerPoint)
 E. Email Programs (e.g., Outlook)
 F. Web-based Programs
 G. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
11. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information in and attached to this application is true, correct, complete, and made in good faith. I understand that false or fraudulent information on or attached to this application may be grounds for not hiring me or firing me after I begin work and may be punishable by fine or imprisonment. I understand that any information I give may be investigated.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected