Position Title
Utility Systems Repairer Operator
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
PW-8400-25-12754974-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 15, 2025 to Friday, August 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a United States Citizen?

For more information, review Employment of U.S Citizens.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.  
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Manzanita Lake, CA
 B. Mineral, CA
2. As part of the official duties of this position, the incumbent is required to operate a Government vehicle. As such, applicants are required to have a valid State-issued Driver's License prior to the closing date of the job announcement.

Please note: you will be required to submit a Motor Vehicle Operator's License and Driving Record. You must also submit (within a State sealed envelope or submitted directly by the State authorities), and at your own expense, all certified driving records from all States that disclose all valid driver's licenses, whether current or past, possessed by you.

Please chose the best response option regarding your license status.
 A. I have a valid State-issued Driver's License.
 B. I will be able to obtain a valid State-issued Driver's License prior to the closing date of the job announcement.
 C. I do NOT have a valid State-issued Driver's License and unable to obtain one prior to the closing date of the announcement. By selecting this option, I acknowledge that I do not meet this requirement and will be marked ineligible.
A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.
3. This is a Career-Seasonal position and subject to release and recall procedures. A permanent career-seasonal position includes all the benefits of permanent employment but does not provide employment on a full year-round basis. As such, the selectee will be in a non-pay/non-duty status for 2 weeks/ 1 pay period during their first service year in this position.

After their first service year, Career Seasonal employees are guaranteed to work at least 6 months per year, but not more than 50 weeks per year. An employment agreement is required and can be changed annually. Are you willing to accept a permanent, career seasonal position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. This position requires the incumbent to have a California Grade 1 Water Treatment Operator license (T1), or equivalent, and possess or be able to obtain within 1 year a California Grade 2 Water Treatment Operator license (T2), or equivalent.

Please mark the answer below that best matches how you meet this requirement. (You must submit a copy of your latest license with your resume.)
 A. Yes I possess a California Grade 2 Water Treatment Operator license (T2), or equivalent.
 B. No, I do not possess a California Grade 2 Water Treatment Operator license (T2), or equivalent but I possess a California Grade 1 Water Treatment Operator license (T1), or equivalent and can obtain a California Grade 2 Water Treatment Operator license, or equivalent within 1 year of start date.
 C. No, I do not meet either of the requirements stated above.
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Ability To Perform The Common Utility Systems Repairer-Operator Duties Under Close Supervision (Screen-Out) (Approved Job Element 1)
1. From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience and/or training that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. YOU MUST DOCUMENT/VERIFY YOUR RESPONSE IN YOUR RESUME/APPLICATION.

 A. I am able to perform the full range of Utility Systems Repairer-Operator duties on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection. Duties performed include: 1) performing maintenance and repair of complex mechanical, electromechanical, electrical and pneumatic equipment pertaining to water treatment and lift station operations; 2) installing and repairing new and existing piping systems to include: PVC, copper, ductile, HDPE, cast and/or galvanized; 3) observing and monitoring wastewater conveyance equipment and operating conditions to determine process requirements; 4) hands on work experience in the processes and regulatory compliance of water and wastewater systems; the conditions of lift stations and associated equipment; standard operating procedures for the systems; and industry skills and practices related to the materials, repair parts, diagnostic equipment, installation procedures, tools, and regulatory codes associated with each system and facility. I have experience working independently with storage and distribution water systems for public and domestic use.
 B. I am able to perform most Utility Systems Repairer-Operator duties without more than normal supervision. Duties performed include: working knowledge as a helper to a journeyman USRO of the processes of Wastewater Treatment and regulatory compliance of water and wastewater systems; the conditions of plants and equipment; standard operating procedures for the systems; and industry skills and practices related to the materials, repair parts, diagnostic equipment, installation procedures, tools, and regulatory codes associated with each system and facility. I have worked with storage and distribution water systems for public and domestic use, with close supervision. I have experience in the operation, maintenance, repair, and monitoring of wastewater lift station pumping equipment and operating conditions to determine process requirements.
 C. I am able to perform the common Utility Systems Repairer-Operator duties under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level Utility Systems Repairer-Operator who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed. Duties performed include: working knowledge as a helper to a journeyman USRO of the processes of Wastewater Treatment and regulatory compliance of water and wastewater systems; the conditions of plants and equipment; standard operating procedures for the systems; and industry skills and practices related to the materials, repair parts, diagnostic equipment, installation procedures, tools, and regulatory codes associated with each system and facility. I have worked with storage and distribution water systems for public and domestic use, with close supervision. I have some experience in the operation, maintenance, repair, and monitoring of wastewater lift station pumping equipment and operating conditions to determine process requirements under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level Utility Systems Repairer-Operator.
 D. I am able to perform simple plumbing tasks, but I know little or nothing about wastewater treatment/collection or water production/treatment/distribution but I'm willing to learn.
 E. I do not have experience with the work described above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected