Position Title
QUALITY ASSURANCE SPECIALIST
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MT-12777738-AF-25-254 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 7, 2025 to Friday, August 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your resume should address each position's requirements, education and experience (general and specialized). Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.
1. Are you a current member or employee of the Montana Air National Guard?
 A. I am currently a Bargaining Unit, Permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) Title 32 Technician with the Montana Air National Guard. (Area I)
 B. I am currently a Non-Bargaining Unit Permanent or Indefinite (Tenure 1, 2 or 3) or a Bargaining Unit Indefinite (Tenure 3) Title 32 Technician with the Montana Air National Guard. (Area II)
 C. I am currently a Traditional (Drill, ADSW, etc.) member of the Montana Air National Guard. (Area III)
 D. I am currently a member of the Armed Forces, and I am willing and eligible to transfer to the Montana Air National Guard. (Area IV)
 E. I am eligible for Montana Air National Guard membership, and I am willing to join. (Area V)
 F. I am not eligible for Montana Air National Guard membership, OR I am unwilling to join.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. GENERAL EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
Must have experience planning, developing, or administering quality assurance programs supporting the development, acquisition, production, use, maintenance, storage, and supply of products required by the National Guard. Such positions are primarily concerned with the systematic prevention of defects and non-conformances, the identification of unsatisfactory trends and conditions, and the correction of factors which may contribute to defective items.

Do you meet the general experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these general experiences to be considered for this position)***

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE -OR- EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS

Must have one of the following:

A) 1-year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade. Experience, education, or training involving a thorough knowledge of products or range of products involved, the manufacturing methods and techniques, special processes, test, and performance requirements; and skill in developing plans and programs. Experience possessed by an expert in specialization able to give technical direction to otherwise competent workers. Experience determining operations when difficult and questionable phases of malfunctions are found. Experience which required significant and concrete work accomplishments (i.e., special projects, working groups, or detailing assignments) involving interpersonal contacts in a quality assurance or related field. Experience in dealing with management principles and supervisory responsibility for the function required by type of position to be filled and the organization involved.

B) Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree

C) 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree

D) LL.M., if related

Do you meet the meet one of the options for specialized experience or education requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these specialized experiences -OR- submit transcripts showing awarded degree to be considered for this position)***

 A. Yes, I meet option A.
 B. Yes, I meet option B.
 C. Yes, I meet option C.
 D. Yes, I meet option D.
 E. No, I do not meet any of the above options for specialized experience or education requirements.
4. Do you currently meet the rank requirement as indicated in the advertisement?
(E5/SSgt  - E6/TSgt)
 A. Yes, I currently meet the rank and military membership requirement as indicated in the advertisement.
 B. Yes, I am an employee with the MT Army/Air National Guard that is willing and eligible for enlistment/reinstatement into the MT Air National Guard within the required rank listed.
 C. No, I am over graded in military rank.
 D. No, I am below the rank requirements as indicated in the advertisement.
 E. No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Air National Guard; but I am willing and eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement in the MT Air National Guard to the ranks indicated.
 F. No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Air National Guard, and I am not eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement to the ranks indicated.
5. What is your current military rank or eligible rank of transfer/enlistment/reinstatement?
6. Please certify that you have accurately and truthfully represented your level of work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and/or education when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. Failure to agree to the statements below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. I certify that my answers are accurate and complete. I accept that if my supporting documentation does not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. I do not wish to certify my answers. I understand that I will not be considered for the position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected