Position Title
Supervisory Clinical Laboratory Scientist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTD-12816787-26-SG Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, October 21, 2025 to Tuesday, November 4, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
BASIC REQUIREMENT: English Language Proficiency - In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English, as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d)?
 Yes
 No


2.
BASIC REQUIREMENT:
Certification- Candidates must meet one of the certification options below or the exception outlined in the job announcement:
Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT.
Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT.
Categorical certification or Specialist certification by ASCP or AMT.
NOTE: Categorical and specialist certifications are not acceptable for CLS Generalist positions or lab sections unrelated to the categorical or specialist certification held. Categorical or specialist certifications are acceptable for higher-graded positions within the relevant lab section or one of the non-section specific assignments (including, Ancillary Testing Coordinator, Education Coordinator, Laboratory Information Manager, Quality Manager, Laboratory Manager, Regional Technical Specialist, National Quality and Compliance Agent, Regional Program Manager, Regional Director, Laboratory Director, or National Quality and Compliance Officer).
Exception for Non-Certified:
Applicants who do not currently hold valid certification may be hired by the VA and actively work toward their certification if they meet one of 4 the routes identified in Appendix A that makes them eligible to take the MLS certification exam through the ASCP BOC or the MLS certification exam through AMT Certification Agency. Non-Certified applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for licensure may be given a temporary appointment CLS under the authority of 38 U.S.C. ? 7405(c)(2).
 Yes, I currently possess the appropriate Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT.
 Yes, I currently possess the appropriate Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT.
 Yes, I currently possess the appropriate Categorical certification or Specialist certification by ASCP or AMT..
 I am applying under the exception listed above and acknowledge that if I am selected for the position I understand that the failure to obtain certification during this time period may result in separation from employment.
 No, I do not currently possess the appropriate certification as a MT, MLS, or Categorical Certification given by the ASCP-BOC, ASCP-BOR, or AMT and do not plan to get the certification.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
BASIC REQUIREMENT:
Education- A bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university.

Do you hold a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university?
 Yes
 No


3a.
Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your Degree.
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree:
Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:


4.
Foreign Graduates: Foreign Education- To be creditable, education completed outside the U.S. must be deemed at least equivalent to that gained in a conventional U.S. program by a private organization specializing in the interpretation of foreign educational credentials. Graduates of foreign baccalaureate degree programs meet the educational requirements if they meet either of the following:
Foreign transcripts are evaluated by an acceptable evaluation agency, and the degree is found to be equivalent to a NAACLS-approved U.S. clinical laboratory science degree program.
OR
The applicant submits a letter from ASCP BOC or AMT stating the individual is eligible to take the certification examination.
NOTE: Possession of a certification identified in 4c above automatically determines the foreign education as creditable and no further documentation or proof of equivalency is needed.
 I possess a letter from a college or university with a baccalaureate program recognized by the NAACLS stating that my foreign degree has been evaluated and been found to be equivalent to a clinical laboratory science degree program.
 I possess a letter from ASCP-BOC or AMT stating that the I am eligible to take the certification examination.
 I am a foreign graduate, but I do not possess the appropriate documentation and understand that I will not qualify for the position without it.
 Not Applicable.


4a.
Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your Degree.
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree:
Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:


5.
GS-12 Supervisory Clinical Laboratory Scientist: Experience:

Must have 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS11), which is directly related to the position to be filled.

Do you meet the specialized experience as specified for the GS-12 Supervisory Clinical Laboratory Scientist:?
 Yes, I have 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the full performance level (GS-11), which is directly related to the position.
 No, I do not meet the experience requirements listed above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities for the GS-12 Lead Clinical Laboratory Scientist: In addition to the above experience/education, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Knowledge of Federal and state laws and regulations and laboratory accrediting agency regulatory requirements sufficient to develop plans and procedures for the laboratory.
Knowledge of laboratory quality management procedures and principles sufficient to establish and monitor a laboratory quality management program and/or the education and training of laboratory staff.
Knowledge of concepts, principles, and methods of clinical laboratory technology and operations.
Skill in applying leadership principles such as interpersonal relations and conflict resolution.
Ability to perform the full range of supervisory duties, which includes responsibility for assignment of work, performance evaluations, selection of staff, recommendation of awards, advancements, and disciplinary actions.
Ability to plan, organize, set short and/or long-term goals, and conduct studies on technical and administrative problems including personnel shortages, organizational structure, and new technology.
Ability to manage fiscal matters, forecast resource and equipment needs, and administer the allocated budget.
Do you meet the knowledge, skills, and abilities as specified for the GS-12 Supervisory Clinical Laboratory Scientist?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙