Position Title
Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner-BHIP
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-12761407-25-LN Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 17, 2025 to Wednesday, July 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
In order to qualify for this position as a Nurse, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as the additional grade-level requirements. Applicants pending the completion of educational requirements may be referred and tentatively selected but may not be hired until the education requirements are met. Applicants that meet the education requirement but do not possess a nurse registration yet may be hired at the entry step of the grade and level applicable to the completed nursing education as a Graduate Nurse Technician on a 120-day temporary appointment while actively pursuing licensure.
1. ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY: In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7403(f), no person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. All Registered Nurses must have Graduate of a school of professional nursing approved by the appropriate accrediting agency and accredited by one of the following accrediting bodies at the time the program was completed by the applicant: The Accreditation Commission for Education in Nursing (ACEN (http://www.acenursing.org/)) or The Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE (http://www.aacnnursing.org/CCNE)); OR
Individuals attending a master's level bridge program in nursing who have completed coursework equivalent to a bachelor's level degree in Nursing may have opportunity to become registered as a nurse with a state licensing board prior to completion of the bridge program. Upon achievement of a State license, the individual may be appointed on temporary basis and later converted to a permanent appointment upon successful completion and graduation from the bridge program; OR
In cases of graduates of foreign schools of professional nursing, possession of a current, full, active, and unrestricted registration will meet the requirement for graduation from an approved school of professional nursing to warrant an appointment as a Nurse who has completed an associated degree/entry level Nursing education program. Credit for foreign nursing education higher that associate degree/entry level requires a formal degree equivalency validation from a recognized equivalency evaluation accepted by VA such as International Consultants of Delaware (ICD (https://www.icdeval.com/)).

Do you meet the above requirements?

 A. Yes, I meet the education requirement or am a current VHA nurse that meets the grandfathering provision.
 B. No
 C. No, I am pending graduation from an approved, accredited school of professional nursing.
3. Provide the following information regarding the academic institution(s) from which you received your RN education.

Name of Academic Institution
City and State
Level of Education (diploma, ASN, BSN, MSN, etc.)
Month and Year conferred (or expected completion date)

4. Do you possess a current, full, active and unrestricted registration as a registered nurse in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth (i.e. Puerto Rico) of the U.S. or in the District of Columbia.?

 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, I am pending RN registration.
5. Do you possess a current, full, active and unrestricted certification as a Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner (PMHNP) in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth (i.e. Puerto Rico) of the U.S. or in the District of Columbia.?

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Provide the following information regarding your RN licensure. If you are not licensed yet, indicate the expected date.

Name on License
Issuing state or territory
Complete license number
Expiration date

The following Scope, Education and Dimension criteria must be met in determining the grade assignment of candidates.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
7. Advanced Practice Nurse (APN) (Nurse Practitioner) II.

(a) Scope. Demonstrates leadership in delivering and improving holistic care through collaborative strategies with others.
(b) Education and Experience Requirement. Meets basic education requirement for APN (CNS). Nurse II is considered the entry grade level for APN (NPs); no experience is required.
(c) Dimension Requirement. APNs (NPs) at level II are expected to meet the following dimension requirements:
Clinical Practice- Delivers evidence-based health care, demonstrating proficiency in the ability to manage a patient panel, population or program.
Outcome Focus- Utilizes research and evidence-based practice to evaluate the patient care delivery system within a patient panel or program, presents findings and contributes to changes that enhance the quality and timeliness of veteran/patient care.
Leadership- Works effectively as a leader within a team/unit/group and seeks interdisciplinary collaboration as appropriate to enhance patient care.
Professional Development- Acquires knowledge and skills to develop expertise in area of practice.
Professionalism/Collegiality- Demonstrates effective communication skills and professional behavior, promoting cooperation and teamwork. Participates in interdisciplinary teams and processes that positively impact patient outcomes.

Do you meet the above grade requirement for APN (Nurse Practitioner ) II?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Advance Practice Nurse (APN) (Nurse Practitioner) III.

(a) Scope. Executes position responsibilities that demonstrate leadership, experience and creative approaches to management of complex client care.
(b) Education and Experience Requirement.
Meets basic education requirement for an APN (NP).
AND
One year of specialized APN (NP) experience equivalent to the Nurse II grade level.
(c) Dimension Requirement. APNs (Nurse Practitioners) at grade III are expected to meet the following dimension requirements:
Clinical Practice- Influences and models the delivery of evidence- based health care, demonstrating expertise in the ability to manage a patient panel, population or program.
Outcome Focus- Leads and implements changes that enhance the quality and timeliness of Veteran/patient care applying research and evidence in the delivery of healthcare for patient populations.
Leadership- Initiates and leads interdisciplinary teams informed by structured approaches and processes to improve outcomes that positively impact care for a patient panel, population or program.
Professional Development- Acquires knowledge and skills, then disseminates acquired information within and/or outside the medical facility.
Professionalism/Collegiality-Initiates and leads interdisciplinary teams developing systems that positively impact outcomes at the panel, population or program level. Demonstrates effective communication skills and professional behavior, promoting cooperation and teamwork.

Do you meet the above grade requirement for APN (Nurse Practitioner ) lll?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected