Position Title
HEAVY MOBILE EQUIPMENT MECHANIC
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
USBP-IMP-12788276-CJH Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 2, 2025 to Monday, September 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
3. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
4. This position requires the ability to operate a Government Owned Vehicle. Do you have a valid, non-restricted driver's license or will you be able to obtain a valid, non-restricted driver's license before the time of appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
6. This position requires a Commercial Drivers License (CDL).  Do you have a valid, Commercial Drivers License (CDL) license or will you be able to obtain a valid Commercial Drivers License (CDL) before the time of appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
The following question will only be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. I have the ability to perform the duties of the Heavy Mobile Equipment Mechanic WG-5803-10 position without more than normal supervision.
 A. Yes
 B. No
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
2. Indicate the extent of your experience operating different types of diesel and/or gasoline engineering equipment including bulldozers, graders, backhoes, loaders, tractors (crawler and wheeled) in the construction and maintenance of roads.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training in performing this task, but I have had no actual hands-on experience operating these types of equipment.
 C. I have had, under close supervision, some experience operating different types of diesel or gasoline engineering equipment.
 D. I have had extensive experience independently operating many if not most of these types of equipment.
3. Indicate the extent of your experience performing preventative maintenance on both diesel and gas powered equipment.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training in preventative maintenance, but I have no hands-on experience applying this training.
 C. I have had some experience, under close supervision, performing preventative maintenance on both diesel and gas-powered equipment.
 D. I have been responsible for performing preventative maintenance on both diesel and gas-powered equipment with little or no supervision.
4. Indicate the extent of your experience troubleshooting equipment and vehicles to trace and locate defects.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training in troubleshooting techniques, but I have had no hands-on experience.
 C. I have assisted more skilled mechanics in troubleshooting equipment and vehicles.
 D. I have, under close supervision, performed some routine troubleshooting of equipment and vehicles.
 E. I have been responsible for troubleshooting equipment and vehicles with minimal or no supervision.
5. Indicate the extent of your experience performing functional/performance tests on completed repair work.
 A. I have had no experience or training performing this task.
 B. I have received training in functional/performance tests, but I have had no hands-on experience performing this task.
 C. I have assisted more senior mechanics in performing functional/performance tests on completed repair work, but I have had no experience performing this task independently.
 D. I have, under close supervision, been assigned responsibility for performing routine functional/performance tests on repaired equipment.
 E. I have independently been responsible for performing functional/performance tests on a wide variety of repaired equipment.
6. Indicate the extent of your experience repairing a full range of systems on heavy mobile equipment and vehicles.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training in repair techniques for heavy mobile equipment and vehicles, but I have had no hands-on experience performing this task.
 C. I have had, under close supervision, some experience repairing different systems on heavy mobile equipment and vehicles.
 D. I have had, under minimal supervision, experience repairing a wide variety of systems on heavy mobile equipment and vehicles.
7. Indicate the extent of your experience determining the work required to restore heavy mobile equipment and vehicles to proper operational function.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had, under close supervision, some experience performing this task.
 C. I have had extensive experience determining the work required to restore heavy mobile equipment and vehicles to their proper operational function.
8. Indicate the extent of your experience interpreting schematics including electrical, hydraulic, pneumatic, and fuel.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training in interpreting some types of schematics, but I have had no hands-on experience interpreting them on the job.
 C. I have, under close supervision, interpreted one or two of these types of schematics.
 D. I have been responsible for interpreting each of these types of schematics on the job.
9. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of the mechanical makeup of heavy-duty systems, assemblies, and parts.
 A. I have no knowledge of the mechanical makeup of heavy-duty systems, assemblies, and parts.
 B. I have received training in the mechanical makeup of heavy duty systems, assemblies, and parts.
 C. I have basic knowledge of the mechanical makeup of heavy-duty systems, assemblies, and parts gained through job experience.
 D. I have a thorough knowledge of the mechanical makeup of heavy duty systems, assemblies, and parts acquired through extensive training and job experience.
10. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of different types of test equipment for use with heavy mobile equipment and vehicles.
 A. I have no knowledge of the different types of test equipment for use with heavy mobile equipment and vehicles.
 B. I have received training in the use of test equipment, but I have not applied this training on the job.
 C. I have some knowledge of different types of test equipment gained from assisting more senior mechanics in using a variety of test equipment on the job.
 D. I have some knowledge of a variety of test equipment gained from using such equipment on-the-job under close supervision.
 E. I have extensive knowledge of the different types of test equipment gained from significant on-the-job experience.
11. Are you knowledgeable regarding the electrical systems of heavy mobile equipment and vehicles?
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you knowledgeable regarding the hydraulic systems of heavy mobile equipment and vehicles?
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Are you knowledgeable regarding the fuel systems of heavy mobile equipment and vehicles?
 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Indicate the extent of your experience adjusting parts and systems of heavy mobile equipment and vehicles to equipment specifications.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training in performing this task, but I have had no on-the-job experience doing so.
 C. I have had some on-the-job experience either assisting more senior mechanics or, under close supervision, adjusting parts and systems in accordance with equipment specifications.
 D. I have had extensive hands-on experience adjusting parts and systems in accordance with equipment specifications.
15. Indicate the extent of your experience rebuilding one or more systems on vehicles or equipment.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training in rebuilding techniques, but I have had no hands-on experience performing this task.
 C. I have assisted more senior mechanics in rebuilding one or more systems.
 D. I have been responsible, under close supervision, for rebuilding one or more systems.
 E. I have independently rebuilt a variety of systems on both vehicles and equipment.
16. Do you have experience welding or operating an oxyacetylene torch?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected