Position Title
Substitute Teacher
Agency
Department of Defense Education Activity
Announcement Number
2025-12719042-SUB-ASK Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, July 25, 2025 to Tuesday, March 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a former Federal employee receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS), but are not currently a permanent competitive federal employee?

If yes, please submit a copy of your retirement Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50 with your completed application.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
If there are multiple geographic locations listed below, please select the locations where you're interested in working; however, referral lists will be issued to management for individual schools and not by geographic location. You will be requested to provide your school preference(s) later in this questionnaire.
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Fort Campbell, KY
 B. Fort Knox, KY
This announcement is used to fill Substitute vacancies, but you will be placed into one of two series based on your level of education. Select the option below that best describes your level of education.

If you possess a Bachelor's degree or higher:
Please select the 1710 series. If you select this option, you must submit a copy of your transcripts.

If you do not possess a Bachelor's degree but you do possess a high diploma or GED:
Please select the 1712 series below. If you select this option, a copy of your diploma is not required.
2. Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 1710 - Education And Vocational Training
 B. 1712 - Training Instruction
School Preferences
Please identify all the schools where you are interested in being a Substitute. You may select as few or as many schools as you would like. When a Principal identifies a need to hire Substitutes, only qualified and eligible applicants who have expressed interest in that specific school are referred for consideration.

IMPORTANT: When selections are made, an applicant will receive only one job offer for one school which will become their "home school." When needed, Substitutes may be requested to provide coverage at other schools within the commuting area.
1. Please select the school(s) where you are willing to work as a Substitute. If you change your mind after applying, you must resubmit your application to update your choices.
 A. Fort Campbell - Andre Lucas Elementary School
 B. Fort Campbell - Barkley Elementary School
 C. Fort Campbell - Barsanti Elementary School
 D. Fort Campbell - Marshall Elementary School
 E. Fort Campbell - Mahaffey Middle School
 F. Fort Campbell - Fort Campbell High School
 G. Fort Knox - Kingsolver Elementary School
 H. Fort Knox - Van Voorhis Elementary School
 I. Fort Knox - Scott Intermediate School
 J. Fort Knox - Fort Knox Middle High School
Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of or possession of these requirements and conditions. Failure to meet or maintain these conditions may result in the rescission of your job offer or termination of your employment.
1. Substitutes are only needed when there is a Teacher absence, and there is no guarantee of regular or recurring work hours. Temporary appointments with intermittent work schedules do not provide any benefits such as health insurance, life insurance, retirement or leave accrual.

Are you willing and able to accept a temporary appointment to a Substitute position with an intermittent work schedule?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. This position requires candidates to reside within the local commuting area in which the position is located. The local commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding the worksite encompassing localities where people live and reasonable can be expected to travel daily to work based on generally held expectations of the local community (5 CFR 575.203).

Do you currently live within the commuting area of this position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This position is covered by the Dual Compensation Act which prohibits an individual from receiving pay from more than one Federal position for more than an aggregate of forty (40) hours of work in one calendar week.

NOTE: Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF) positions are not covered under the Dual Compensation Act. If you have a NAF job, you may still be eligible to work as a Substitute without regards to the 40-hour calendar week limitation.

Are you able and willing to accept the pay limitations mandated by the Dual Compensation Act?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. This position requires interaction with children and youth under the age of 18 years of age. Before being placed into this position you must undergo a background investigation with childcare check.

Are you willing to complete an initial background check with childcare investigation with re-investigations every five years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Substitute position with the Department of Defense Education Activity (DoDEA). Your resume, supporting documentation, and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1. Select the statement that best describes the education you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Substitute.

NOTE: If you certify you possess a Bachelor's degree or higher, you must attach a copy of your transcripts.
 A. I possess a Bachelor’s degree or higher from an accredited college or university. NOTE: you must submit a copy of your official transcript (in English).
 B. I have a high school diploma or general equivalency degree (GED).
 C. I do not possess the education described above.
2. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected