Position Title
Health Technician (Massage Therapist) Advanced Clinical
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZM-12801998-25-KSB Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 15, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Please indicate the highest grade you have held in the Federal government.
--Select-- 
--Select--
I have never held a position in the Federal government.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
5. Please indicate dates of the highest grade you have held in the Federal service (if applicable).
6. In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
BASIC REQUIREMENTS - Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and/or education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience and/or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.

The full performance level of this vacancy is GS-08. The actual grade at which an applicant may be selected for this vacancy is GS-08.
The following KSAs should be reflected within your resume or on a separate document with your application package:
1.) Skill in providing advanced massage techniques using the appropriate tools, supplies, and equipment based on the needs of the patient;
2.) Knowledge of anatomy, physiology, and pathology relevant to massage therapy within specialty population(s);
3.) Ability to modify massage therapy techniques based on an understanding of specialty populations, and various clinical/environmental settings;
4.) Knowledge of teaching methods and learning principles;
5.) Ability to conduct research and quality improvement activities, related to massage therapy; and
6.). Knowledge of complementary integrative health, and holistic health principles.
1. Basic Education Requirement: Please select the answer below that best represents your education in massage therapy. Note: Education programs are considered to meet the basic education requirements if you hold a full unrestricted and current license, registration, or certification, or have maintained a board certification from the NCBTMB?
 A. I have completed a minimum 500-hour massage therapy education program OR
 B. I am a foreign graduate and have completed a foreign massage therapy program that required a minimum 500-hour education program OR
 C. I am a current VHA Employee in this occupation that is covered under the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard.
 D. No, I acknowledge that I do not meet this requirement, and understand my application will not receive further consideration.
1a. Please provide the following information regarding your education:
School Attended (include location):
Degree obtained:
Date awarded:
*Note: Please provide copy of transcripts with your application.
2. Please select the response below that most accurately describes your licensure, registration, or certification:
 A. I am currently licensed, registered, or certified to practice as a massage therapist in a state, territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or the District of Columbia. Acceptable credentials must have required successful completion of a minimum 500-hour massage therapy education program and pass the Massage and Bodywork Licensing Examination, National Certification Board for Therapeutic Massage and Bodywork Examination, or equivalent state-issued examination. OR
 B. I possess and maintain a board certification from the National Certification Board for Therapeutic Massage and Bodywork (NCBTMB). NOTE: As of the date of this standard, several states do not offer a credential in massage therapy. Additionally, some states offer a credential that does not meet the 500-hour education program and/or state-issued examination requirements described above in subparagraph 3.c.(1). Candidates may satisfy the basic requirement of licensure/certification/registration by possessing and maintaining a board certification 3 from the NCBTMB. OR
 C. I meet the exception and may be given a temporary appointment as a Graduate Health Technician (Massage Therapy) for a period not to exceed two years. *Exception. Non-certified applicants, who have pending registrations or licensures in a state, or a certification by a national board recognized by the Secretary, and otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for licensure, may be given a temporary appointment as a Graduate Health Technician (Massage Therapy), under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(c)(2)(B), for a period not to exceed two years. Failure to obtain licensure/registration/certification during this period may result in termination of employment. OR
 D. I am a current VHA Employee in this occupation that is covered under the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard.
 E. No, I acknowledge that I do not meet this requirement, and understand my application will not receive further consideration.
2a. Please provide the following information regarding your licensure (active and expired):
License type:
State issued:
Date of original issuance:
Date of expiration:
*Note: Please provide copy of your massage therapy license with your application
3. Grade Level GS-08, Advanced Clinical: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, candidates must possess one year of progressively complex experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level.

For Reference Assignments at the GS-7 grade level: Health Technicians (Massage Therapy) independently assess the physical and mental status of patients. The Health Technician (Massage Therapy) takes complete patient history and performs a physical assessment. The Health Technician (Massage Therapy) interprets relevant clinical information to identify each patient's population-specific needs, identify indications/contraindications for massage, and develop the plan of care. Health Technicians (Massage Therapy), at this level, are responsible to perform massage therapy services with complexity higher than the developmental level. The Health Technician (Massage Therapy) performs duties with limited supervision and seeks assistance from the supervisor in urgent or emergent circumstances. The Health Technician (Massage Therapy) evaluates patient responses to treatment and documents responses to treatment, by maintaining accurate records in an electronic environment. The Health Technician (Massage Therapy) coordinates follow up massage therapy as necessary. Health Technicians (Massage Therapy), at this level, serve as consultants to the health care team in the evaluation and treatment of the patient. Under routine academic oversight, the Health Technician (Massage Therapy) assists with clinical supervision of massage therapy students.
 A. Yes, I meet the experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level.
 B. None of the above apply to me. I acknowledge that I do not meet this requirement and understand my application will not receive further consideration.
***Application Package Notification & Important Information***
We appreciate your interest in available positions within the Heart of Texas VA Health Care System. It is our goal to forward every eligible and qualified candidate for consideration.
 
Due to the nature of our systems, it is imperative that your application package be accurate and complete. Therefore, prior to finalizing your application package and submitting for consideration:
* Ensure all documents are appropriately selected, are legible, and have uploaded successfully (we recommend viewing them a second time to ensure no errors have occurred in the process). Missing documents may cause your application package to be ineligible for consideration.
* Ensure that all responses to the assessment questions are accurate and correctly reflect your current situation. Question responses are used in determining if you meet specific eligibility and qualification requirements.
 
Please Note: Until the closing date of the announcement, you can update or edit your package. However, once your application package is submitted and the announcement period closes, we are unable to add documentation or alter your responses. By submitting your package for consideration, you are attesting that your application package is complete and accurate.
 
Some helpful tips:
 
*Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
 
Job title Grade Level (for federal positions)
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2020)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
 
*Education - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
 
*Veteran's Preference - In order to receive appropriate preference consideration, you must submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veteran's preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (Member Copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-point Veteran's Preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).
 
*Current or former VA or Federal Employees - You must submit a copy of a current and/or highest grade held SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action (not an award SF50)
 
*Proof of current certification, licensure, or registration (if applicable).
 
 
https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/students/transcripts/
 
https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/how-to/account/documents/resume/build/
 
https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/faq/application/documents/resume/what-to-include/

Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. I have read and understand the Application Package Notification & Important Information notice, and understand my application may not be forwarded if any necessary information is missing that makes me appear ineligible or not qualified. While some documents may not be identified as required (example: transcripts, copy of licensure, etc), it is highly recommended you submit them with your application to ensure you receive full credit for your education or licensure.

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected