Position Title
Fire Management Specialist (Prescribed Fire and Fuels)
Agency
Forest Service
Announcement Number
25-FIRE-PXR4-FMSPPF-1112DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 21, 2025 to Wednesday, July 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than USDA? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

 For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. McCall, ID
 B. Afton, WY
 C. Big Piney, WY
 D. Jackson, WY
 E. Kemmerer, WY
 F. Moran, WY
 G. Pinedale, WY
2. Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Please enter at least 3 references below. Include first and last name, phone number and email address.

Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this position with the USDA Forest Service. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine your eligibility for this position. Read all responses before making your selection. THE RESUME AND APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWERS YOU CLAIM.
1. Do you have experience performing on-the-line (Primary/Rigorous) wildland fire suppression duties as a member of an organized fire suppression crew or comparable unit that utilized knowledge of wildland fire suppression, containment or control techniques and practices under various conditions? This experience must be documented with specific dates in the online application or resume.

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Have you successfully completed the Primary NWCG Core Requirements of Prescribed Fire Burn Boss Type 2 (RXB2) and Secondary NWCG Core Requirement of Incident Commander Type 3 (ICT3) or Task Force Leader (TFLD) OR Primary NWCG Core Requirements of Prescribed Fire Burn Boss Type 2 (RXB2) and Secondary NWCG Core Requirement of Helibase Manager (HEBM)? A copy of the Incident Qualification and Certification System (IQCS) Master Record (or equivalent training document) which contains documented proof certification or attainment of this requirement must be attached to the application.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. From the descriptions below, select the response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to meeting the basic requirements for this GW-0401 position. Please select only one response.

 A. I have successfully completed a full (4) year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree that included a major field of study in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position.
 B. I possess a bachelor's degree in an accredited in college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree in a major field of study that included 24 semester hours in course work in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, wildland fire management, forestry, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position. Related coursework generally refers to courses that may be accepted as part of the program major.
 C. I have a combination of education and experience that included 24 semester hours in course work in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management ,wildland fire management, forestry, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position, AND experience sufficient to demonstrate that I possess the knowledge, skills, and abilities required to perform work in the occupation that is comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of a full 4-year course of study with a major in the appropriate field needed to perform the work of the occupation.
 D. I do not meet the requirement(s) described above.
Specialized Experience Requirements for GW-0401-11/12 Fire Management Specialist (Prescribed Fire and Fuels) position. From the descriptions below, select the statement that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience and requirements for the Fire Management Specialist (Prescribed Fire and Fuels) position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position. Experience claimed should be reflected in your resume.
Specialized Experience Requirements for GW-11 level
4. From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meet the specialized experience and requirements for the GW-11 level of this GW-0401-11/12 Fire Management Specialist (Prescribed Fire and Fuels) position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position. Experience claimed must be reflected in your resume.
 A. I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GW-09 grade level in the Federal service which includes the following: Assisted in reviewing and evaluating fire management plans for ecological soundness and technical adequacy; Assisted in conducting field inspections before and after prescribed or wildland fires to determine if resource objectives were achieved and/or to evaluate the effectiveness of actions taken; and Assisted in developing analyses on the ecological role of fire and its use and/or exclusion, and smoke management.
 B. I have 3 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree (coursework directly related to position being filled such as biological sciences, botany, ecology, horticulture, climate sciences, natural resource management).
 C. I have an appropriate combination of specialized experience and graduate level education (beyond what is required for a master's degree, i.e., more than 36 semester hours leading to a Ph.D.).
 D. I do not meet the experience or education requirements specified above.
Specialized Experience Requirements for GW-12 level
5. From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meet the specialized experience and requirements for the GW-12 level of this GW-0401-11/12 Fire Management Specialist (Prescribed Fire and Fuels) position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position. Experience claimed must be reflected in your resume.

 A. I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GW-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes: Reviewing and evaluating fire management plans for ecological soundness and technical adequacy; Conducting field inspections before and after prescribed or wildland fires to determine if resource objectives were achieved and/or to evaluate the effectiveness of actions taken; and Developing analyses on the ecological role of fire and its use and/or exclusion, and smoke management.
 B. I do not meet the requirements described above.
In addition to fire program management, appropriate experience must have included either Prescribed Fire/Fuels Management -or- Fire Management Operations as described below:
6. Select the statement that best reflects your specialized experience participating in Prescribed Fire/Fuels Management -or- Fire Management Operations activities.
 A. I have experience with Prescribed Fire/Fuels Management - such as: professional forest or range inventory methods and procedures, (e.g., Brown's planar intercept for dead and down fuels or live loading assessments); analysis of fuel loadings and determination of appropriate fuel treatment methods and programming; Land use planning and environmental coordination; and evaluating prescribed fire plans or fire management plans to ensure fire containment is possible and identify appropriate suppression contingencies if containment is not obtained.
 B. I have experience with Fire Management Operations - analyzing and applying fire management strategies, plus experience in at least five of the following activities: Mobilization and dispatch coordination, Fire prevention and education, Training, Logistics, Equipment development and deployment, Fire communication systems, Suppression and preparedness and/or Aviation.
 C. I do not meet the requirement(s) described above.
7. Have you read the "Required Documents" section of the vacancy announcement and understand that failure to submit all required, legible documents prior to the closing date of the announcement may result in loss of consideration?

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 B. No, I do not certify and I understand that by responding no to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected