Position Title
Veteran Outreach Program Specialist (VOPS)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBZY-12809807-26-CMB Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 10, 2025 to Tuesday, October 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Current Federal Employees Critical Note: Please provide your most recent SF-50 (within last 12 months) and your latest Within Grade Increase or Promotion SF-50 as well.
The most recent SF-50 allows us to verify your current status, appointment, agency and/or duty station to confirm your Eligibility to Apply;
The latest WIGI or Promotion SF-50 allows us to verify Time in Grade (TIG).

Without these, we are unable to verify these requirements and you could be deemed unqualified for not meeting Area of Consideration, Time In Grade or not providing the proper documentation for us to do so.

ALL APPLICANTS Critical Note: Evidence of specialized experience must be supported by detailed documentation of duties performed in positions held on your resume. You must provide work experience information such as:

Hours per week
Salary
Starting/ending dates of employment (month and year format) to establish you have at least 52 weeks one (1) full year of Specialized Experience at or comparable to the required grade level.
Failure to provide the required information on your resume to accurately assess your experience may result in being deemed unqualified for this position.

Information on building federal resumes can be found at: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/faq/application/documents/resume/what-to-include/


Please choose the answers below that best describe your employment and experience.


1.
GS-09 Specialized Experience: Do you possess at least one (1) full year of specialized experience, which equips you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the Veterans Outreach Program Specialist, GS-09 position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled? To be creditable, this specialized experience must have been equivalent to the grade GS-07 level in Federal service to qualify at the grade GS-09.

Examples of specialized experience include, but are not limited to:
Participating and assisting in the planning of outreach events and generating program refers.
Providing individual and group presentations to inform others of various services.
Distributing and assisting in the creation of marketing materials including, brochures, presentation, flyers, fact sheets, and web content.
Accurately maintaining client records accordance with program guidelines and polices.
Collecting outreach data and providing reports to leadership.
~OR~

Education: To qualify based on education for this grade level you must have master's or equivalent graduate degree OR two (2) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. OR J.D., if related. You must include a copy of transcripts if you are basing any of your qualifications on education, failure to do so will result in not receiving any educational credit.

~OR~

Combination: Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at this level.

*Note: Evidence of specialized experience must be supported by detailed documentation of duties performed in positions held on your resume. You must provide work experience information such as hours per week, salary, and starting/ending dates of employment (month and year format) to establish you have one (1) full year of Specialized Experience at or comparable to the required grade level.
 Yes, I possess (1) year specialized experience at the equivalent of the GS-07 level in the Federal service.
 Yes, I possess a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related.
 Yes, I possess the required combination of education and experience.
 No, I do not meet this requirement.


2.
GS-11 Specialized Experience: Do you possess at least one (1) full year of specialized experience, which equips you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the Veterans Outreach Program Specialist, GS-11 position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled? To be creditable, this specialized experience must have been equivalent to the grade GS-09 level in Federal service to qualify at the grade GS-11.

Examples of specialized experience include, but are not limited to:
Working with in the community, developing, planning, scheduling, and conducting outreach events, and referral processes.
Creating and presenting formal briefings to a variety of individuals with various education, environmental, ethics and cultural backgrounds.
Developing, managing, and distributing outreach materials to include brochures, presentation, flyers, fact sheets, web content, and other targeted information which highlights services and locations.
Preparing and maintaining records including documentation of contacts, clients visits and administrative activities in accordance with program guidelines and polices.
Preparing and providing accurate reports and cursory analysis on outreach data as assigned in accordance with program requirements.

~OR~

Education: To qualify based on education for this grade level you must have a Ph.D. or equivalent degree OR three (3) full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.M., if related. You must include a copy of transcripts if you are basing any of your qualifications on education, failure to do so will result in not receiving any educational credit.

~OR~

Combination: Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at this level. You must have a combination of specialized experience and graduate level education in excess of the first year or 18 semester hours.

*Note: Evidence of specialized experience must be supported by detailed documentation of duties performed in positions held on your resume. You must provide work experience information such as hours per week, salary, and starting/ending dates of employment (month and year format) to establish you have one (1) full year of Specialized Experience at or comparable to the required grade level.
 Yes, I possess (1) year specialized experience at the equivalent of the GS-09 level in the Federal service.
 Yes, I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent degree OR (3) full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.M., if related.
 Yes, I possess the required combination of education and experience.
 No, I do not meet this requirement.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you have 52 weeks of service at the next lower grade at GS-09?

 Yes
 No


4.
Do you have 52 weeks of service at the next lower grade at GS-11?

 Yes
 No


Driver's License: A current, valid state-issued Driver's License is required for this position.  NOTE: We cannot accept photographs, therefore, please do not submit a copy of your license with your application package.  If an interview is requested, you will be required to provide a copy of your current, valid state-issued Driver's License.  If selected for the position, a clean driving record report from the DMV and a copy of the driver's license will be required during the online onboarding process.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙