Position Title
Occupational Therapist VIST
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-12811466-26-VM Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, October 6, 2025 to Thursday, October 16, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
1.
a. Citizenship. Be a citizen of the United States. (Non-citizens may be appointed when it
is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with 38 U.S.C. § 7407(a)
 Yes
 No


2.
[(1) The individual must meet at least one of the following requirements below:
(a) Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two
(2) years of experience as an
occupational therapist;
NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to
the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that the Accreditation Council for
Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE) would only accredit master or
doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy.
or
(b) Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) full years of graduate
education in a related field;
NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to
the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that ACOTE would only accredit master or
doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy.
or
(c) Master's Degree or higher in occupational therapy.
(2) Individuals must be a graduate of] a degree program in occupational therapy
approved by the ACOTE or predecessor organizations. This is inclusive of an
internship (supervised fieldwork experience required by the educational institution).
ACOTE is the only accreditation agency recognized by the United States
Department of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation.
Degree programs may be verified by contacting the American Occupational Therapy
Association website or at their office address: American Occupational Therapy
Association, P.O. Box 31220, Bethesda, MD 20824-1220
 Yes
 No


3.
d. Certification. Candidates must possess a current NBCOT certification as an OT.
 Yes
 No


4.
e. State Licensure. Candidates must possess] a full, current, and unrestricted state
license [ ], to practice occupational therapy in a state, territory or Commonwealth of the
United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia
 Yes
 No


5.
k. English Proficiency. [Candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to
be appointed as authorized by 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f).
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙