Position Title
Program Analyst
Agency
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Information and Technology
Announcement Number
IMP-OPS-12777406-25-ARC-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, August 5, 2025 to Thursday, August 7, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position you will be separated from; AND,
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; AND, 
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences

Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:

Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.

1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering, remember that your responses are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or eligibility as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.
1. Are you a current or former VA employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position equivalent to or below the grade of the position being advertised?

Note: To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Specialized Experience: You must possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 level.
2. From the descriptions below, select the letter that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Program Analyst, at the GS-13 grade level. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you leave this question blank, you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 A. I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower level of GS-12 in Federal service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as the following: strong leadership and program management skills with the ability to prioritize the needs assigned by Executive Leadership and the Chief of Staff in a high operational tempo environment; prepare, display, and interpret data, data elements, and report information; translate management goals and objectives into coordinated and controlled work operations and recommend system improvements to develop new, or modified, work methods.
 B. My experience is not reflected in the above statement.
Assessment 2
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering, remember that your responses are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or eligibility as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.
1. I have performed the following leadership functions in work units, team assignments, or programs that I have led, managed, or were assigned senior responsibility. (Select all that apply)
 A. Determined customer expectations and planned the scope, content, and schedule of required actions.
 B. Set goals, milestones, and expectations for my staff.
 C. Planned execution/division of work assignments to team members.
 D. Reviewed completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness.
 E. None of the above.
2. Which activities have you performed while advising staff on the reasonable accommodation process? (Select all that apply)
 A. Lead Interactive Process meetings w/requestor.
 B. Lead Consultation meetings w/senior leadership.
 C. Provided RA training to staff.
 D. Provided RA training to management officials.
 E. Provided RA training to senior leadership (SES).
 F. Generated and published technical RA guidance for leadership.
 G. Implemented Action Plan and coordinated updates for RA process improvements.
 H. Provided testimony (in writing or in-person) to respond to RA Redress Complaints.
 I. None of the above.
3. Have you developed and recommended policy changes related to Federal law for implementation into an agency handbook/directive?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Which activities have you performed while processing a reasonable accommodation reassignment search action? (Select all that apply)
 A. Developed the internal policy on how to complete the Reassignment search.
 B. Provided guidance throughout the reassignment process to the assigned ADA/RA coordinator.
 C. Conducted consultation meeting with Selecting Official to obtain positions required essential functions.
 D. Conducted review of potential positions to known functional limitations to determine medical ability to perform the potential essential functions and provided potential accommodations to the Selecting Official.
 E. Conducted consultations with legal officials regarding Selecting Official challenges to potential placements.
 F. Conducted Interactive Process meeting with Selecting Official and potential candidate.
 G. Provided guidance on the issuance of interim accommodation (i.e., statement of duties, etc.) while pending completion of RA-related reassignment search process.
 H. Coordinated loss and gain action with Servicing HR offices.
 I. None of the above.
5. I have coordinated and led reasonable accommodation (RA) training events involving an audience (live or virtual) of greater than:
 A. 100 people
 B. 500 people
 C. 1,000 people
 D. 2,500 people
 E. I have never led or coordinated an RA training event.
6. At what organizational level have you advised stakeholders on the reasonable accommodation process and required actions?
 A. Company/Agency wide.
 B. Product/Department wide.
 C. Division/Office wide.
 D. Service/Team wide.
 E. None of the above.
7. At what organizational level have you communicated in writing regarding regulations, policy interpretation, and program guidelines covering highly sensitive and/or confidential matters?
 A. Company/Agency wide.
 B. Product/Department wide.
 C. Division/Office wide.
 D. Service/Team wide.
 E. None of the above.
8. Which activities have you performed when conducting an analytical study of an organizational program? (Select all that apply)
 A. Learned and understood stakeholder perspectives.
 B. Developed programs based on stakeholder needs.
 C. Wrote program objectives.
 D. Designed program evaluations.
 E. Selected and designed data collection methods.
 F. Interpreted and presented results to stakeholders.
 G. None of the above.
9. Which data driven activities have you independently performed? (Select all that apply)

 A. Reviewed customer requirements to resolve any incomplete, ambiguous, or contradictory issues.
 B. Presented customer requirements by drafting case studies, user stories, and natural-language documents.
 C. Analyzed Federal law and internal agency policies/requirements to develop process improvements.
 D. Conducted surveys or focus groups to improve organizational program requirements / analytical evaluation materials.
 E. None of the above.
10. Indicate which of the following computer systems or applications you have used to analyze data. (Select all that apply)
 A. Access
 B. Excel
 C. HRSmart
 D. PowerPoint
 E. SharePoint
 F. Word
 G. RA Management System (RAMS)
 H. None of the above
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected