Position Title
Immigration Services Officer
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12794191-EPK-ST-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 4, 2025 to Monday, September 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current DHS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

Do you wish to be considered under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) because you are a current or former Federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.704

For more information about ICTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. The Reemployment Priority List (RPL) is the mechanism DHS uses to give reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees separated by reduction-in-force (RIF), or fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a former DHS employee?  If so, have you met all of the following criteria?
Registered for the RPL program, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupied a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current/most recent performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent, and
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606.
For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, visit 5 CFR 330 Subpart B.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
My SF-50 showing Separation - RIF. If that is not available yet, then official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Do you wish to be considered under the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) because you meet one of the following criteria?
Are a preference-eligible veteran,
OR
Are a veteran separated from the armed forces after three (3) or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions. 
Note: Veterans claiming eligibility on the basis of service in a campaign or expedition for which a medal was awarded must be in receipt of the campaign badge or medal.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
DD-214 showing character of service, and
If applying based on your preference as a disabled veteran, you must submit your letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) showing the combined service-connected disability rating, or other acceptable documentation. 
See OPM's Vet Guide or SF-15 for more information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
5
7
9
11
12
2. I acknowledge the following conditions if I choose to submit my resume through the USAJOBS Resume Builder:
I understand that resumes submitted through USAJOBS Resume Builder are converted to a PDF format when they are transmitted to USA Staffing from the USAJOBS applicant interface and additional spaces/page gaps are added to resumes during the Resume Builder conversion process;
Based on the above conditions, I understand that USCIS strongly encourages me to save my resume to a PDF document and upload the PDF document instead of submitting my resume created through Resume Builder;
I understand that USCIS' human resources will only review the first 2 pages of my resume to determine eligibility/qualifications for this position;
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I have met this requirement for consideration.

(Note: Additional guidance regarding this requirement is available within the How to Submit Your Resume section of the USCIS Resume Requirement FAQs.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 D. No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.
4. Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) from the Federal Government within the last 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I acknowledge that this position is NOT remote and that if selected, I will be expected to report to the duty station listed within the announcement text.
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I understand this requirement.
By answering NO to this question, I am asking to be removed from further consideration for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. GS-05 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience and/or education?
 A. I possess three (3) years of progressively responsible experience, one (1)year of which was equivalent to at least the GS-04 grade level in the Federal service. This experience demonstrates my ability to: analyze problems to identify significant factors, gather pertinent data, and recognize solutions; plan and organize work; and communicate effectively orally and in writing.
 B. I have successfully completed four (4) full years of education above high school leading to a bachelor’s degree.
 C. I possess a combination of experience and post high school education that together meets the requirements for this position.
 D. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.
2. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response
3. GS-07 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience and/or education?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I have successfully completed at least one (1) full year of graduate level education (18 semester hours, 27 quarter hours or equivalent) in a field of study directly related to the work of this position as described in the vacancy announcement.
 C. I possess a combination of specialized experience and graduate education that together meet the requirements for this position.
 D. Superior Academic Achievement - I meet one of the requirements listed in the superior academic achievement description below. Superior Academic Achievement Description: I have successfully completed the requirements for a Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university with either: (1) class standing in the upper third of a graduating class or major subdivision; or, (2) a grade point average of 3.0 or higher on a 4.0 scale based on four (4) years of education or the final two (2) years; or, (3) a grade point average of 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final two (2) years of the curriculum; or, (4) membership in a national scholastic honor society.
 E. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.
4. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response
5. GS-09 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience and/or education?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I have successfully completed a Master’s or equivalent graduate degree or at least two (2) full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B or J.D. in a field related to the work of this position as described in the vacancy announcement.
 C. I possess a combination of specialized experience and graduate education beyond the first year of graduate study that together meet the requirements for this position.
 D. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.
6. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response
7. GS-11 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience and/or education?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or at least three (3) full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M. in a field related to the work of this position as described in the vacancy announcement.
 C. I possess a combination of specialized experience and graduate education beyond the first two (2) years of graduate study that together meet the requirements for this position.
 D. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.
8. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response
9. GS-12 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
10. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response
11. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-07. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-05 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-05 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-05 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-07 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., VRA, Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
12. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-09. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-07 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-07 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-07 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-09 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., VRA, Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement)
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
13. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-11. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-09 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-09 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-09 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-11 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., VRA, Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
14. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-12. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
The following section contains a multitude of question types. If you see a radio button, you can only select one response. If you see a checkbox, you may select all that apply.
15. Select the actions you have performed to maintain a record tracking system.
 A. Entered minimal data to maintain record keeping.
 B. Reviewed, edited, corrected data entered by others.
 C. Independently and accurately entered, retrieved, analyzed, tracked, and retained documentation.
 D. Generated database queries or reports to respond to inquiries and requests for information or assistance.
 E. Generated statistical reports, graphs, and presentations.
 F. None of the above.
16. Which activities have you performed to assess the accuracy of case file contents?
 A. Identified missing information/documentation
 B. Identified inconsistencies in case file contents
 C. Identified any potential fraudulent documentation
 D. Ensured documentation was legible
 E. Ensured copies of all required correspondence were in the file
 F. Ensured all Personal Identifiable Information (PII) was properly stored
 G. Ensured there were no unnecessary PII in case file
 H. None of the above
17. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience analyzing investigative reports?
 A. I reviewed investigative reports in a training/education setting, but do not have professional experience.
 B. I independently analyzed investigative reports by identifying the issues in the investigation and providing a written report detailing the issues.
 C. I analyzed investigative reports under supervision, where I drafted a written report detailing the issues and a superior reviewed and finalized it.
 D. None of the above.
18. Select the choice that best describes your highest level of experience reviewing immigration applications.
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to reviewing immigration applications.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to reviewing immigration applications, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I reviewed the supporting documents along with office procedures to determine the completeness of the file.
 D. I verified the accuracy of the supporting documents to determine if the individuals were attempting to submit fraudulent applications.
 E. I reviewed the supporting documents and determined basic eligibility under the final approval of a supervisor.
19. Select the statements you have performed relative to proactively facilitating case completion.
 A. I requested records and documents maintained by Federal, states, or local offices, or foreign countries.
 B. I analyzed files to ensure they contained all the required documentation for completion.
 C. I reviewed databases to ensure all files were logged and accounted for.
 D. I printed reports for files with missing items to make it easier to review and track completion.
 E. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
20. Have you researched statutes and precedents to determine the most applicable strategy for presenting legal information?
 A. Yes
 B. No
21. Select the tasks you have performed related to conducting security checks for immigration benefit applications.
 A. I used government systems to initiate security checks in accordance with all applicable laws and policies.
 B. I ensured that all records and property were maintained and destroyed in accordance with security requirements.
 C. I identified files with national security threats and public safety issues and prioritized them for security checks.
 D. I conducted file searches for aliases.
 E. I conducted file searches for criminal behavior.
 F. I conducted file searches for dates of birth.
 G. None of the above.
22. Which statement best describes your ability to adapt to changing work assignments?
 A. I perform my best having consistent work assignments
 B. I perform my best having a variety of work assignments.
 C. I perform my best having mostly consistent work assignments and some variety.
 D. I find it hard to remain focused when doing the same assignment over and over.
23. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience solving problems (e.g., navigating deviations from standard work processes)?
 A. I asked for guidance from others (e.g., peers, supervisors, trainers) to solve work problems.
 B. I referenced established training documents and operating procedures to solve work problems.
 C. I collaborated with peers to develop alternative options to solve a problem.
 D. I trained others on how to resolve problems (e.g., adapt to deviations) in their work.
 E. I completed education and/or training in problem solving but don't have professional experience.
 F. None of the above.
24. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience applying rules and policies related to Immigration benefit applications?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to immigration benefit rules and policies.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to immigration benefit rules and policies, but have not applied them on the job.
 C. I explained basic eligibility requirements and provisions of law to applicants and interested parties.
 D. I reviewed applications, petitions, supporting documentation, official files, related policy/procedures, and precedent decisions to determine prima facie eligibility under the Immigration Nationality Act.
 E. I provided non-routine information and assistance on general aspects of immigration law to applicants, petitioners or legal representatives in response to telephone, walk-in, congressional or other written inquiries.
 F. I adjudicated applications and petitions determined to be routine or less complex than those referred to Immigration Services Officers or are readily approvable.
25. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience using fact-finding methods and techniques to gather investigative information from various sources?
 A. I have no education, training, or experience in using fact-finding methods and techniques to gather investigative information from various sources.
 B. I have formal education or training in using fact-finding methods and techniques to gather investigative information from various sources.
 C. I have used fact-finding methods and techniques to gather investigative information from various sources under close supervision.
 D. I have independently regularly used fact-finding methods and techniques to gather investigative information from various sources.
 E. I have supervised others in, or been regularly consulted as an expert in, using fact-finding methods and techniques to gather investigative information from various sources.
26. Which sources have you researched to adjudicate applications for benefits?
 A. Precedent decisions
 B. Guidance in legislative history
 C. Federal laws and regulations
 D. State and local news
 E. Operating instructions
 F. International treaties
 G. None of the above
27. Which application-related activities have you independently performed?
 A. Advised applicants on supporting documentation needed to apply.
 B. Explained eligibility requirements when ineligible applicants were identified.
 C. Assisted applicant with completing forms.
 D. Explained administrative procedures to applicants.
 E. Explained processing times to applicants.
 F. Answered questions regarding pending status of application.
 G. Determined the acceptability of applications based on laws and/or regulations.
 H. Referred questionable applicant cases to a higher-level official.
 I. Responded to specific requests with applicant’s information (e.g., letter of interrogatory)
 J. Made recommendations on employment eligibility.
 K. None of the above.
28. Which types of software have you independently used to organize information?
 A. Word Processing (e.g., Microsoft Word)
 B. Email (e.g., Outlook)
 C. Spreadsheets (e.g., Excel)
 D. Databases (e.g., Access)
 E. Graphics/Presentation Tools (e.g., Power Point)
 F. Project Management Tools (e.g., Microsoft Project)
 G. Collaboration Tools (e.g., SharePoint, Google Docs)
 H. None of the above
29. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience adjudicating immigration benefits applications?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to adjudicating immigration benefits applications.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to adjudicating immigration benefits applications, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I applied immigration laws, rules, and regulations while under supervision.
 D. I independently applied immigration laws, rules, and regulations to recommend adjudication results.
 E. I independently adjudicated immigration benefits and wrote final determinations to support my findings.
30. Select the activities you have performed pertaining to immigration fraud.
 A. I analyzed operational aspects of anti-fraud and law enforcement checks (e.g., policies, procedures, systems).
 B. I gathered and organized records in databases to assist Immigration Officers in creating reports.
 C. I accessed law enforcement and commercial databases to extract information for background checks as part of immigration fraud detection.
 D. I participated in special groups (e.g., inter-agency or intra-agency task forces) to enhance U.S. national security and the integrity of the legal immigration system.
 E. None of the above
31. Select the activities you have completed to communicate with applicants and petitioners applying for immigration benefits.
 A. I independently communicated highly technical immigration laws to customers seeking immigration benefits.
 B. I mitigated applicants' objections by analyzing issues and identifying appropriate resources for expedient resolution.
 C. I developed Standard Operating Procedures on how to appropriately adjudicate applications and petitions for immigration benefits.
 D. I followed-up with applicants and petitioners to ensure there were no new/remaining issues.
 E. None of the above.
32. Select the types of documents you have drafted related to immigration benefit applications.
 A. Denials
 B. Letters of Intent to Deny or Revoke
 C. Border Warning Notices
 D. Liability Evidence Records
 E. Withdrawals
 F. None of the above
33. Select the statements that describe your experience processing and investigating immigration benefits cases.
 A. I safeguarded Personally Identifiable Information (PII).
 B. I investigated and determined Benefit Fraud.
 C. I identified current fraud patterns and trends.
 D. I handled classified information in accordance with regulations.
 E. I explained Immigration and Nationality Act rules, regulations and policies to others.
 F. None of the above.
34. Which choice best describes your highest level of experience writing documents that are consistent with adjudicative standards?
 A. I completed education and/or training related to writing documents consistent with adjudicative standards, but do not yet have professional experience.
 B. I drafted documents for senior level review and finalization.
 C. I independently researched and interpreted adjudicative standards in order to create logical, well organized correspondence related to benefit cases.
 D. I independently reviewed and approved others' documents to ensure standards were met.
 E. None of the above.
35. Which choice best describes your highest level of experience adjudicating immigration benefits?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education in adjudicating immigration benefits.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to adjudicating immigration benefits but do not yet have professional experience.
 C. I provided data to immigration services officers who were responsible for adjudication.
 D. I reviewed immigration benefits applications for completion and accuracy.
 E. I adjudicated immigration benefits applications.
36. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience processing immigration benefits?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to processing immigration benefits.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to processing immigration benefits, but do not have professional experience
 C. I reviewed immigration benefit applications for completeness.
 D. I searched/updated immigration related databases to review immigration applications.
 E. I interviewed applicants seeking immigration benefits.
 F. I adjudicated and wrote final determinations on applicants seeking immigration benefits.
 G. I represented immigration benefit applicants in legal proceedings.
 H. I wrote legal briefs or other written memoranda that advocated for sensitive and complex hearing or appeal cases involving immigration benefit eligibility.
 I. I wrote legal briefs in support of appeals from denial of immigration benefits.
37. What statement best describes your highest level of proficiency in applying the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA)?
 A. I have completed a class in law school or other higher educational setting on immigration law but do not have professional experience working with the INA.
 B. I have reviewed and adjudicated immigration cases (requests for immigration benefits or relief) as an immigration officer, appeals officer, hearing officer, or administrative judge within the U.S. government.
 C. I have practiced immigration law and written briefs and motions to support clients’ requests for immigration benefits or immigration relief.
 D. I have taught a university level course on topics in immigration law.
 E. I have worked as a legal assistant to an immigration attorney or in an immigration law office.
38. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience reviewing case file documents to determine the current status?
 A. I analyzed systems to ensure that they had current case status.
 B. I updated systems and databases to perform case management.
 C. I reviewed and tracked case files to ensure proper resolution of issues, problems, and errors in order to determine correct status.
 D. I researched, collected, and analyzed data in order to prepare case status reports
 E. I have no experience, training, or education related to determining case file status.
 F. I completed education and/or training related to case file status determinations, but do not have professional experience.
39. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience responding to an issue or situation in which the resolution was not obvious?
 A. I gathered basic information about the situation and took the issue to a supervisor for help.
 B. I researched the situation to develop alternatives within guidelines and collaborated with a supervisor to resolve it.
 C. I developed a recommended solution based on my research of the situation and guidelines and sought confirmation/approval from my supervisor before proceeding.
 D. I researched and resolved the issue independently, then briefed my team or supervisor on the action taken.
 E. None of the above.
40. Which response best describes your highest level of experience making legal decisions based on a preponderance of evidence received during data collection for applicants seeking immigration benefits?
 A. I provided data to others who were responsible for making legal decisions.
 B. I independently researched, interpreted and analyzed sources in order to make legal decisions.
 C. I independently reviewed and approved legal decisions made by others to ensure agency-/ organizational-wide pertinent sections of the law and regulations were supported.
 D. None of the above.
41. Select the activities you have performed related to ensuring the accuracy of data related to immigration fraud.
 A. Reviewed applications/petitions for completeness.
 B. Verified accuracy of entered data
 C. Updated database with new or revised information.
 D. Created queries to facilitate data review.
 E. Conducted database searches to identify potential issues (i.e., fraud).
 F. None of the above.
42. Select the activities you have performed related to ensuring the accuracy of data related to the adjudications of benefits.
 A. Reviewed applications/petitions for completeness.
 B. Verified accuracy of entered data
 C. Updated database with new or revised information.
 D. Created queries to facilitate data review.
 E. Conducted database searches to identify potential issues (i.e., data discrepancies).
 F. None of the above.
43. What is your highest level of experience determining when a decision can be made with all available evidence and when it is necessary to refer the case to another branch?
 A. I analyzed files and provided explanations of case status when prompted.
 B. I provided information to third parties and evaluated all avenues to determine and/or correct issues.
 C. I prepared case files/records and related documents to be routed to other offices.
 D. I independently researched questions and provided in-depth guidance when referring incomplete cases.
 E. I have no experience, training, or education related to making this type of determination.
 F. I completed education and/or training related to making this kind of determination, but do not have professional experience.
44. Which actions have you taken to prepare a response to inquiries pertaining to Nationality Laws?
 A. I reviewed Immigration Law documents to ensure I provided the correct response to customers and stakeholders.
 B. I used form letters and filled in pertinent items when corresponding with applicants or their representatives.
 C. I reviewed documents that my peers created to ensure accuracy.
 D. None of the above.
45. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience conducting a file review for decisions made on immigration benefit applications to ensure the final decision is in compliance with immigration laws, regulations and/or policies?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to reviewing immigration benefit decisions.
 B. I completed education and/or training on reviewing immigration benefit decisions, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I independently reviewed immigration benefit applications to ensure the adjudication decision complied with immigration laws, regulations and/or policies.
 D. I assisted applicants in appealing the final decision for immigration benefits sought based on the grounds of the decision not being compliant with immigration laws, regulations and/or policies.
 E. I counseled my superiors on cases where the final decision for immigration benefits was not in compliance with immigration laws, regulations and/or policies and recommended solutions to rectify the error.
46. Select the tasks you have performed to determine basic eligibility for immigration benefits and privileges under the final approval of a senior employee or supervisor.
 A. I reviewed applications and petitions for benefits, such as those involving incomplete or inconsistent data.
 B. I scrutinized applications and supporting documents to determine if individuals are attempting to submit fraudulent applications for benefits.
 C. I verified information and tracked responses for requests for additional evidence.
 D. I explained to clients the eligibility requirements for possible benefits.
 E. I advised clients of the forms and supporting documentation necessary to apply for benefits.
 F. None of the above.
47. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience writing a statement of reasons for an adverse determination (e.g., disqualifying applicants)?
 A. I have no education, training, or experience writing statements of reason.
 B. I completed education and/or training in writing statements of reason, but have not yet performed them on the job.
 C. I drafted adjudicative summaries to identify potential adverse determinations.
 D. I drafted a request for information to mitigate or disqualify applicants' eligibility.
 E. I issued notices of proposed actions to communicate adverse actions to the applicant.
 F. I issued final adverse determinations to applicants.
48. What is the most extensive evidence you have reviewed to ascertain an individual's credibility or veracity?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to ascertaining an individual's credibility or veracity
 B. I completed education and/or training related to ascertaining an individual's credibility or veracity, but do not have professional experience.
 C. Limited amount of information (i.e., preliminary encounter, without background information or research).
 D. Detailed screening information (e.g., from client background, job applicant, or criminal investigation screenings).
 E. Extensive investigation (e.g., deposition, judicial proceeding, administrative benefits hearing, attorney-client merit interview).
49. When guidance is ambiguous or not straight forward, which course of action do you take?
 A. Ask my peer or supervisor for assistance.
 B. Research all available guidance and make an independent, logical decision.
 C. Stop working on the assignment to allow time to think about it more.
 D. Take my best guess and move on to the next assignment.
50. If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "pass," "satisfactory," or better?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. I am a Federal employee but have not received a performance rating.
 D. Not applicable. I am not a Federal employee.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
51. Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected