Position Title
INFORMATION SECURITY SPECIALIST (TITLE 5)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-12792890-AF-25-026 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 12, 2025 to Saturday, September 27, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you currently serving on Active Duty? If, yes you must provide a "current DD 214 or Statement/Memo from your Command". The statement of service must provide the branch of service, rate/rank, all dates of service, the expected date of discharge and anticipated character of service (Honorable, General, etc).

 A. Yes
 B. No
Requirements
1. Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 A. Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 NC National Guard employee (Title 32 (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5) working at (145 AW) (See last SF50).
 B. Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 NC National Guard employee (Title 32 (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5) working at a NC National Guard unit/activity, other than (145 AW) (See last SF50).
 C. Area 3 - Within the NC National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 D. Area 4 - I am currently a Federal Employee "not" employed by the NC National Guard.
 E. Area 5 - I am currently a U.S. Citizens, NOT employed as a Federal Employee.
 F. None of the Areas listed above apply to my current status.
Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.
1. Select the one statement that best describes the General Experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-0080-12 Information Security Specialist.
 A. I HAVE the education and validated understanding of the basic principles and concepts of the occupational series and grade and can demonstrate the ability to 1) analyze problems to identify significant factors, gather pertinent data, and recognize solutions; 2) plan and organize work; and 3) communicate effectively orally and in writing.
 B. I DO NOT HAVE the education and validated understanding listed above.
2. Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-0080-12 Information Security Specialist.
 A. I HAVE at least 1 year equivalent to at least next lower grade level experience of the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the positions, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled.
 B. I DO NOT have at least 1 year equivalent to at least next lower grade of the experience, education or training listed above.
3. Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-0080-12 Information Security Specialist.
 A. I HAVE experience in 1) serving as the Wing Information Protection Program Manager executing/enforcing all operational, functional, and mission assurance aspects of the program; 2) formulating wing program goals, plans, policy implementation guidelines, procedures, and work plans dealing with the development and operation of wing-wide information security programs and activities and provides technical and administrative direction to subordinate wing information security personnel; 3) interpreting National Guard Bureau (NGB), Air National Guard (ANG), Air Force (AF), Department of Defense (DoD), and other federal regulations for information security processes as they apply and are implemented within the Wing; 4) preparing information security review reports and providing recommendations and advice; 5) analyzing and evaluating the classification downgrading, declassification, and destruction programs; 6) advising installation project engineers, project managers, command mission leads, action officers, and effected operational officers of their responsibility to provide proper classified management guidance and specification requirements during performance of respective duties; 7) overseeing, directing, monitoring, and conducting regulatory and non-regulatory security surveys and Information Security Program Reviews (ISPRs) to monitor and enforce implementation and oversight of DoD Information, Personnel, and Industrial Security Programs; 8) making information protection risk assessments and risk management/mitigation strategies/recommendations based on intelligence-derived threat issues that may require deviations from or synthesis of policies; 9) using initiative and resourcefulness in researching and implementing new and improved security methods and procedures; 10) delivering Security Awareness and Education Programs to satisfy security education and training requirements for all assigned organizations; 11) overseeing the development of recurring education and training for Top Secret Control Officers (TSCO) and Original Classification Authorities (OCA); 12) exercising supervisory personnel management responsibilities; and 13) directing the overarching focus and direction of the organization.
 B. I DO NOT HAVE the experience or knowledge listed above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected