Position Title
Irrigation System & Water Pump Repairer
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERH244993115376HWR Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, June 26, 2025 to Wednesday, July 9, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Irrigation System & Water Pump Repairer, WG-5301-09 position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Occupational Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
1. Select the one statement that best describes your highest level of experience as it relates to your ability to perform the duties of the Irrigation System & Water Pump Repairer position.

 A. I have independently performed as a journeyman Irrigation System & Water Pump Repairer and am an expert in the installation, operation, troubleshooting, diagnosis, repair, replacement and predictive and preventative maintenance of vertical hollow shaft motors, propeller pumps, siphon breakers, pump motor ratchets, submersible turbine pumps, centrifugal pumps, vacuum breaker pumps and various valves and gauges, and ; I have extensive experience operating a variety of heavy equipment, including 5 &10-yard tandem and single axle dump trucks, semi-dump trash truck and trailer, gas & diesel powered tractor with attachments, loader & backhoe, and watercraft; planning and completing general carpentry projects and repairs; using and caring for hand and powered tools, to include, table saws, band saws, and other powered equipment.
 B. I have experience performing the more difficult tasks of an Irrigation System & Water Pump Repairer to include the installation, operation, troubleshooting, diagnosis repair, replacement and predictive and preventative maintenance of multiple types of pumps and automated underground irrigation systems; operating a variety of gas & diesel powered heavy equipment and watercraft on a regular basis; performing general carpentry projects and repairs; and using and caring for hand and powered tools. I have performed this work on my own initiative with only general supervision from higher authority.
 C. I have experience performing the common tasks associated with journeyman duties of a Irrigation System & Water Pump Repairer under general supervision. I have experience repairing and maintaining automated underground irrigation systems to include various types of pumps; operating a variety of gas & diesel powered heavy equipment; performing general carpentry projects and repairs; and using and caring for hand and powered tools.
 D. I have performed and/or assisted with the common tasks associated with the duties of an Irrigation System & Water Pump Repairer working with and performing repair and maintenance of multiple types of pumps and irrigation systems; and using and caring for hand and powered tools under close supervision.
 E. My training or experience is not reflected in the above statements, but I am willing to learn.
2. Your responses to the Announcement and Occupational Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected