Position Title
Food & Beverage Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
PEN 26-12828633 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, November 5, 2025 to Wednesday, November 19, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
1.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with us. We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position.  Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
How many years of experience do you have working in a Food & Beverage operation?
 I have more than three years of working experience in a Food & Beverage operation.
 I have between one and three years of working experience in a Food & Beverage operation.
 I have less than one year of working experience in a Food & Beverage operation.
 I do not have any working experience in a Food & Beverage operation.


2.
Select the answer that best represents your documented experience in Budgeting/Cost Analysis.
 I have more than three years of experience in Budgeting/Cost Analysis.
 I have between one and three years of supervisory experience in Budgeting/Cost Analysis.
 I have less than one year of experience in Budgeting/Cost Analysis.
 I do not have any experience in Budgeting/Cost Analysis.


3.
How many years of supervisory experience do you have in a Food & Beverage operation?
 I have more than three years of supervisory experience in a Food & Beverage operation.
 I have between one and three years of supervisory experience in a Food & Beverage operation.
 I have less than one year of supervisory experience in a Food & Beverage operation.
 I do not have any supervisory experience in a Food & Beverage operation.


4.
Select the answer that best represents your documented experience in employee scheduling, conducting interviews, preparing disciplinary documentation and performing clerical/administrative duties.
 I have more than three years of working experience with employee scheduling, conducting interviews, preparing disciplinary documentation and performing clerical/administrative duties.
 I have between one and three years of working experience with employee scheduling, conducting interviews, preparing disciplinary documentation and performing clerical/administrative duties.
 I have less than one year of working experience with employee scheduling, conducting interviews, preparing disciplinary documentation and performing clerical/administrative duties.
 I do not have any working experience with employee scheduling, conducting interviews, preparing disciplinary documentation and performing clerical/administrative duties.


5.
How many years of experience do you have conducting payroll and personnel actions?
 I have more than three years of experience being responsible for payroll and personnel actions.
 I have between one and three years of experience being responsible for payroll and personnel actions.
 I have less than one year of experience being responsible for payroll and personnel actions.
 I do not have any experience being responsible for payroll and personnel actions.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙