Position Title
Safety and Occupational Health Specialist
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
PW-1547-DEVA-25-12792636-ST Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 3, 2025 to Saturday, September 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. 1. Are you the spouse of a member of the armed forces serving on active duty?

-OR-

2. Are you a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty?

-OR-

3. Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources. 

To verify your eligibility for option 1 identified above, you must submit documentation verifying active duty status; and documentation verifying marriage to the member of the armed forces (i.e., a marriage certificate or other legal documentation verifying marriage).

To verify your eligibility for options 2 and 3 identified above, you must submit the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15 and all supporting documentation identified on that document (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; death certificate and documentation identifying marital status at the time of death; disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service, etc..
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Do you meet one of the following Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibilities:
Current Federal or former employees with career or career- conditional appointments in the competitive service that hold, or have held a career or career-conditional position at a lower grade level as the position being announced; or,
Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) eligibles
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation.  For example, a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your competitive status or a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a former member of the Public Lands Corps (PLC) who has served the time required for completing a PLC project carried out on Federal land within the preceding 2 years (an individuals eligibility for NCE under this authority shall not exceed 2 years after completion of his/her last PLC project), and:

• Served as a qualified youth on an appropriate conservation project completing a minimum of 640 hours of satisfactory service that included at least 120 hours through the PLC (individuals must provide a copy of the "Certificate of Eligibility for NCE Hiring Based on PLC Service" and the complete PLC Participant Work Hours Verification Form with your application package in order to be considered under this hiring authority), and

• Meet OPM qualification standards and any other qualification requirement(s) stated in this vacancy announcement for the position in which you are applying.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.  
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who:
was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; and,
served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; and,
performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; and,
if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing.
 
To verify your eligibility, you must provide documentation for the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA) eligibility, which includes ALL Appointment AND Termination SF-50s for EACH appointment as well as ALL performance evaluations, for each qualifying period of temporary employment claimed.
For more information, review Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA).
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Do you meet one of the following Non-Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibilities:
Disabled veteran receiving 30% or more disability compensation from the VA;
Transfer, reassignment or reinstatement eligible:  current Federal or former employee with career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service that hold, or have previously held a career or career-conditional position at the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being announced; or,
Individual eligible under other non-competitive appointment authorities such as: Veterans Recruitment Authority; Military spouses under E.O. 13473; Certain former overseas employees; Present and former Peace Corps, Vista or Action volunteers; Former White House staff; Present and former Foreign Service officers and employees; Certain National Guard technicians; Schedule A; OPM Interchange Agreement and Other Miscellaneous Authorities.
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation.  For example, a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service; a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50); etc.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions and you:
recently separated (within the past 3 years)
are a disabled veteran
served on active duty during a war, campaign or expedition OR
received an Armed Forces Service Medal
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. If claiming disability preference, provide the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Barstow, CA
 B. Death Valley, CA
 C. Thousand Oaks, CA
 D. Twentynine Palms, CA
 E. Baker, NV
 F. Boulder City, NV
 G. Saint George, UT
A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
2. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
6. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. My performance is at an acceptable level and I am not serving under a formal Performance Improvement Plan (PIP).
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Not Applicable
8. Credit will be given for all appropriate qualifying experience. To receive credit for experience, your resume MUST clearly indicate the nature of the duties and responsibilities for each position, starting and ending dates of employment (MUST include beginning and ending month/year e.g., 5/2019-10/2019 or 5/10/2019-10/20/2019), and the resume must reflect full and/or part-time or total number of hours worked (i.e., work 40+ hours a week, rather than indicating full-time). If part-time, the exact hours must be annotated to be able to pro-rate the amount of qualified specialized experience.
 A. Yes, I certify that I have read and understood this requirement. I understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my resume/application.
 B. No, I have not provided this information in my resume/application. I understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my resume/application.
9. To qualify based on education, you must submit a legible copy of transcripts from an accredited institution with your name, school name, credit hours, course level, major(s), and grade-point average or class ranking. Transcripts do not need to be official, but if you are selected for this position and you used your education to qualify, you must provide official transcripts before you begin work.

If you are using education completed in foreign colleges or universities to meet qualification requirements, you must show that your education credentials have been evaluated by a private organization that specializes in interpretation of foreign education programs and such education has been deemed equivalent to that gained in an accredited U.S. education program; or full credit has been given for the courses at a U.S. accredited college or university.
 A. Yes, I certify that I have read and understood this requirement; and I have provided this information with my application package if applicable. I understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my application package.
 B. No, I do not certify and understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my application package.
10. Merit Promotion applicants who are in a current GS position or have held a GS position any time in the previous 52 weeks (one year) must also meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of this announcement. For a GS-XX position you must have served 52 weeks (one year) at the GS-XX. The grade may have been in any occupation but must have been held in the Federal service. SF-50(s) that shows your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application (e.g. Promotions, STEP Increases, etc.). Award SF-50s will not be accepted for determination of time-in-grade. Note: Time-In-Grade requirements also apply to former Federal civilian employees applying for reinstatement as well as current employees applying for Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA) appointment.
 A. I meet the Time-in-Grade requirements as defined above and have provided the appropriate documentation with my applicant package.
 B. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirements as defined above and/or unable to provided the appropriate documentation with my applicant package.
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Safety and Occupational Health Manager position with the National Park Service located in Mount Rainier National Park. Your response to this questionnaire in conjunction with the other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated to determine your qualifications for this position. Please carefully follow all instructions before submitting your responses. You must select only ONE response for each item. If you change a response, be certain to unclick the incorrect response before you submit the application. Once you have submitted your application, items that are left blank will not receive credit.
Minimum Qualifications (Screen Out)
1. From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the minimum qualifications requirements for a Safety and Occupational Health Specialist, GS-0018-11 position. If you do not meet the requirements of this question, you will be rated ineligible. You must document the experience you claim in your resume.
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to Safety and Occupational Health Manager, GS-09 grade level in the Federal Service that is in, or related to, safety and occupational health, which has provided me specific knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of this position. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include 1) applying knowledge and practical application of safety and occupational health techniques and measures used to identify and analyze common hazards; 2) participating on a survey or inspection team that contribute to the effectiveness of the overall safety and occupational health program by analyzing and evaluating findings and recommending corrective measures; 3) preparing guides or instructions that educate employees in safe operating practices or techniques; and 4) using a variety of computer programs to manage safety/health information databases, recordkeeping and tracking systems.
 B. I have successfully completed three years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a PhD or LL.M., if related or equivalent graduate degree in an accredited educational institution concentrated in a field that is directly related to the work of this position, such as in safety, occupational health, industrial hygiene or degree in other related fields such as occupational medicine, toxicology, public health, mathematics, physics, chemistry, biological sciences, engineering, and industrial psychology that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours of study from among the following (or closely related) disciplines: safety, occupational health, industrial hygiene, occupational medicine, toxicology, public health, mathematics, physics, chemistry, biological sciences, engineering, and industrial psychology. IMPORTANT - PLEASE NOTE: If you are using education to qualify you must document your course work and/or degree completed in your resume or other application materials you submit. You must submit a copy of your transcripts or a complete list of college courses taken that identifies for each course the college or university, semester or quarter hours earned, grade received, and date completed. If you are qualifying based on education and you do not submit specific course work information as described previously, your application will be rated not qualified for consideration. (A copy of your official transcripts will be required before entrance on duty, if selected).
 C. I have an equivalent combination of such graduate education and experience. For example, I have 6 months of the specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-9 level (50 percent of the specialized experience requirement for GS-11) and 45 semester hours or 68 quarter hours of progressively higher level directly related graduate education (50 percent of the education requirement for GS-11).
 D. I do not meet any of the statements above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected