Position Title
SECURITY SPECIALIST (PROTECTION) (TITLE 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-12776892-AR-25-124A Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 8, 2025 to Saturday, September 6, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1. If selected, are you willing to accept this indefinite position, and understand that the position may be terminated upon receipt of a 30 day notice (due to return of original employee hired to backfill/funding/workload).
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Military Requirements
1. Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?


 A. Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at (JFHQ-J3) (See last SF50).
 B. Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at a NC ARNG unit/activity, other than (JFHQ-J3) (See last SF50).
 C. Area 3 - Within the NC Army National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 D. Area 4 - I am currently assigned to one of the following: Active Duty Army, Army Reserve, or a State/Territory Army National Guard other than North Carolina.
 E. I am not currently assigned to one of the areas listed above.
2. Are you currently assigned militarily as an Officer (MAJ or LTC)?


 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.
1. Select the one statement that best describes the General Experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-0080 Security Specialist (PROTTECTION).
 A. I HAVE the education and validated understanding of the basic principles and concepts of the occupational series and grade for one of the seven organizational program disciplines (Force Protection/Anti-Terrorism, Information Protection Security, Physical Security, Security Forces, Security Training, Security Unit Deployment Manager, and Special Security Office Security) and the applicable Security Series career level .
 B. I DO NOT HAVE the education and validated understanding listed above.
2. Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-0080 Security Specialist (PROTTECTION).
 A. I HAVE at least 36 months in the Security career field or intelligence career field to include technical training schools and drill-status working experience.
 B. I DO NOT have at least 36 months of the experience, education or training listed above.
3. Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-0080 Security Specialist (PROTTECTION).
 A. I HAVE 1) experience in developing, implementing, and managing a NC National Guard State’s law enforcement, physical security, wing security, and Anti-Terrorism and Force Protection programs, 2) must have experience in formulating and implementing plans and processes, overcoming obstacles and conflicts, and managing the state’s force protection and anti-terrorism programs, 3) must have experiences in reviewing, analyzing, and assessing law enforcement sensitive information, 4) experienced in managing and directing assigned program areas, conducting studies and reviews; and, writing, publishing and implementing force protection policies and projects, 5) knowledgeable in security program specialties to include physical, personnel, and operational security, 6) experienced in correctly identifying and resolving conflicting and complex policy and program objectives, and procedures within the security functional area, 7) experienced in the specialized field of force protection and anti-terrorism, and physical and operations security, 8) has comprehensive, authoritative knowledge of Executive Orders, legislation, and Department of Defense, National Guard Bureau, United States Army, US Air Force, Major Commands and Major Components’ policy requirements, 9) Experienced in formulating comprehensive and integrated state force protection programs; and experienced in applying regulatory requirements and reducing command specific vulnerabilities, 10) competent to apply innovative and new security theories and concepts to provide overall enhanced security of installation resources and personnel, 11) must have experiences in managing and supervising work functions and discipline requirements, 12) experienced in conducting employee performance evaluations; mentoring junior officers and enlisted squadron employees, managing resources and budgets; and directing assigned work, and leading the employees on all program tasks, inspections, exercises, deployments, and/or mobilizations, 13) must have experiences in planning and scheduling work in a manner that promotes smooth flow and even distribution of assigning work requirements, 14) experiences included Information Protection program training and guiding employees on programs and through assigned tasks, 15) experiences involved balancing Information Protection program requirements and providing advice, guidance, and direction on a wide variety of the program’s policies and employee performance administrative issues, 16) experienced in structuring assignments to create effective and efficient procedures that resulted in measuring improved task processes, 17) previous supervisory experiences created improvements in mentoring, training applications and career development that resulted in the employees’ increased performance values in quality work, timeliness considerations, and work efficiencies, 18) must have demonstrated experiences or endorsements on mentorship competencies provided to employees and 19) must have working knowledge of equal employment and affirmative action programs.
 B. I DO NOT HAVE the experience or knowledge listed above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected