Position Title
Maintenance Helper
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
PEN 26-12815613 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 17, 2025 to Friday, October 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
1.
I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


2.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 50 pounds.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for this position. Failure to respond may result in an ineligible rating.


1.
How many years of documented experience do you possess with the skill in the use of a variety of basic hand/power tools and small construction tools?
 Two (2) or more years of documented skill in the use of a variety of basic hand/power tools and small construction tools.
 One (1) to two (2) years of documented skill in the use of a variety of basic hand/power tools and small construction tools.
 Six (6) months to one (1) year of documented skill in the use of a variety of basic hand/power tools and small construction tools.
 No documented skill in the use of hand-powered tools and small construction tools.


2.
How many years of documented experience do you possess in basic trade practices (painting, plumbing, electrical, or carpentry)?
 Three (3) plus years documented general experience in a trade listed above.
 Two (2) to three (3) years documented general experience in a trade listed above.
 One (1) to two (2) years documented general experience in a trade listed above.
 Less than one (1) year or no documented general experience in a trade listed above.
 I possess no experience as stated above.


3.
Ability to work independently with little to no supervision.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙