Position Title
CHEMICAL ENGINEER (DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY)
Agency
Air Force Elements, U.S. Strategic Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-089301/02-12798383-KAS Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 12, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Due to current hiring limitations, this position is open only to current Department of Defense Federal Government employees. Are you currently employed as a DoD employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
1
2
2. Are you retired from the Federal civilian service or are you in a phased retirement and receiving an annuity?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Current or Former Political Appointees: The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently employed, or have been employed within the last 5 years, in any one of the categories below, you must disclose this information. Failure to disclose this information could result in disciplinary action including removal from Federal Service.

Are you a current or former political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316?
-OR-
Are you a current or former Schedule A or Schedule C political appointee, or an appointee who serves/served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch?
-OR-
Are you a current or former political appointee or non-career SES Executive Branch employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I am a current permanent or former federal employee with less than 52 weeks break in the competitive service and I am applying for this position to be considered as a:
 A. Promotion Candidate - I am eligible for promotion consideration since I have held the next lower grade for at least 52 weeks on a permanent basis in the competitive service or I am a current FWS employee. NOTE: You must submit a copy of SF-50(s) that demonstrate you meet the one year time-in-grade requirement if applicable (i.e., Promotion, Within Grade/Rate Increase).
 B. Repromotion Candidate - I am eligible for non-competitive repromotion consideration since I have held a higher grade on a permanent basis in the competitive federal service or a permanent position with the same or higher promotion potential as this position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis.
 C. Non-competitive Reassignment Candidate - I am eligible for non-competitive reassignment consideration since I currently hold a permanent competitive service position in the federal government with equal or higher promotion potential as this position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis held on a permanent basis.
 D. Non-competitive Voluntary Change to Lower Grade (CLG) Candidate - I am eligible and requesting consideration for a Voluntary CLG since I have held, or currently hold a permanent competitive service position at a higher grade in the federal service. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your current permanent position.
 E. I am not eligible for any of the above considerations.
5. I am a current or prior military member of the Armed Forces that is retiring or has been retired less than 180 days. Hiring (appointments or transfers) of retiring or retired members of the Armed Forces to positions in any DoD Component during the 180 days immediately following retirement may only be made IAW DoDI 1402.01 and may require a waiver for appointment prior to the 180 days from official military retirement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. If you are currently employed in a permanent General Schedule (GS) position in the competitive service or held a GS position within the previous 52 weeks, please identify your current grade held in a permanent position with inclusive dates, (e.g. 03 Jan 2015 to present). If your current grade is not your highest grade held, please provide both your current grade (with inclusive dates) and your highest grade held grade with inclusive dates, (e.g. 01 Jan 2014 to 02 Jan 2015). If you have not held a GS position in the last 52 weeks, you may skip this question. (Note: Your SF-50's should support the highest grade held).
7. Did you voluntarily separate from federal service and receive Voluntary Separation Incentive Pay (VSIP)?

NOTE: If your response is yes, you must provide a copy of your SF 50 or Leave and Earnings statement showing receipt of payment as part of your application submission. If you become reemployed by the federal government within 5 years of separating from federal service and have received a VSIP, you will be required to repay the full VSIP amount paid to you.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Are you a military spouse who is currently married to an active duty military member?

NOTE: This item is for demographic reporting only. It does not confer eligibility or preference. If you want to apply as a military spouse, you must select from the eligibility options above. Military spouse and military spouse preference may not be available for all positions.
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. If you are a military spouse who is currently married to an active duty military member, did you relocate with the military member to their current duty station?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Not applicable. I am not a military spouse.
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements needed to qualify for this Chemical Engineer, DR-0893-01/02 position. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.
1. You must meet the basic qualification requirements for professional engineering positions in the Federal government. Please select from one the following that describes how you meet basic qualifications
 A. I have successfully completed a bachelor’s degree (or higher) in engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor’s degree (or higher) in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET); or (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
 B. I have a combination of college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: (I) Professional registration or licensure: Current registration as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. Absent other means of qualifying under this standard, those applicants who achieved such registration by means other than written test (e.g., State grandfather or eminence provisions) are eligible only for positions that are within or closely related to the specialty field of their registration; or (II) Written Test: Evidence of having successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico; or (III) Specified academic courses: Successful completion of at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and in engineering that included the courses specified in the basic requirements under paragraph A (above). The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program as described in paragraph A (above); or (IV) Related curriculum: Successful completion of a curriculum leading to a bachelor’s degree in an appropriate scientific field, e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, may be accepted in lieu of a bachelor’s degree in engineering, provided the applicant has had at least one year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily, there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
 C. My experience and/or education is not described in any of the above statements.
2. Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Chemical Engineer at the DR-01 (GS-07 equivalent) grade level. Your resume must support the response you select.
 A. I have, or will have within 120 days of closing this announcement, 1 year or 52 weeks of specialized experience equivalent to GS-05 in the Federal service or equivalent in an alternate pay system. Specialized experience is professional engineering experience assisting with engineering and scientific work involving chemical processes utilized by industries and/or scientific technologies to produce products and/or systems; and assisting with quantitative and/or qualitative analysis and investigative techniques to synthesize data, evaluate significant factors, and/or make recommendations.
 B. I have successfully completed 1 year of graduate-level education directly related to the position or superior academic achievement. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts.
 C. My experience/education is not described in the above statements.
3. Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or specialized experience requirements you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Chemical Engineer 0893 at the DR-02 (GS-12/13 equivalent) grade level. Your resume must support the response you select.
 A. I have, or will have within 120 days of closing this announcement, 1 year or 52 weeks of specialized experience equivalent to DR-01 (GS-11) in the Federal service or equivalent in an alternate pay system. Specialized experience is professional engineering experience performing engineering and scientific work designing, analyzing, and/or optimizing chemical processes and or products utilized by industries and/or scientific technologies; evaluating projects and/or programs by applying cost benefit analysis methods; and analyzing and interpreting systems.
 B. My experience is not reflected in the above statement.
CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
4. Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected