Position Title
Management and Program Analyst
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12806777-FDSSIB-IMP-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 30, 2025 to Thursday, October 9, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current USCIS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 Yes
 No


2.
The Reemployment Priority List (RPL) is the mechanism DHS uses to give reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees separated by reduction-in-force (RIF), or fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a former USCIS employee?  If so, have you met all of the following criteria?
Registered for the RPL program, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupied a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current/most recent performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent, and
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606
For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, visit 5 CFR 330 Subpart B.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
My SF-50 showing Separation - RIF. If that is not available yet, then official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who is in a permanent position that is in the competitive service (see block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type)?

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of our SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13


2.
There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 Yes
 No
 The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.


3.
Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) from the Federal Government within the last 5 years?
 Yes
 No


4.

This job is being posted for individuals who reside within the local commuting area* of the announced duty location on a permanent basis. All candidates must meet this requirement, with the exception of Refugee, Asylum and International Operations (RAIO) overseas employees approved for rotation OR unless on an approved exemption OR at an approved USCIS location. In these cases you can apply for any location.

Do you reside within the local commuting area* of the announced duty location on a permanent basis OR are a RAIO overseas employee approved for rotation OR on an approved exemption** OR at an approved USCIS location***?

*Local commuting area is defined as a distance that you can reasonably travel back and forth daily to the announced duty location from your permanent residence.

**An approved exemption is: military spouses, approved RA, or temporary long distance remote status (documentation required).

***An approved USCIS location is defined as pre authorized space designated for use by the program, office or directorate.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

The address listed on your USA Jobs profile or resume must show that you reside within the local commuting area of the announced duty location.
If on an approved exemption you must provide the most recent approval.
If at an approved USCIS location you must provide the original reporting instructions.
 Yes
 No


5.
If your status changes, requiring you to report to a physical location you may be directed to report to one of the duty locations listed in the original job opportunity announcement without relocation expenses.
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I understand this requirement.
By answering NO to this question, I am asking to be removed from further consideration for this position.
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you a current USCIS employee who opted to take part of the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) and are currently in an Administrative Leave category?
 Yes.
 No.


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
GS-12 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the requirement as described above.


2.
You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.


3.
GS-13 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the requirement as described above.


4.
You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.


5.
This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-12. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level or equivalent?
 Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level or equivalent.
 No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level or equivalent.
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent.
 Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.


6.
This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-13. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent?
 Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent.
 No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent.
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.


The following section contains a multitude of question types. If you see a radio button, you can only select one response. If you see a checkbox, you may select all that apply.


7.
Which program and project management activities have you performed?
 A. I functioned as an acquisition specialist.
 B. I have been a team member in a liaison role between project teams, Program Manager, and customers.
 C. I attended meetings with Project Teams to jointly identify and plan upcoming contract actions.
 D. I led meetings with Project Teams, as the Project Manager, to ensure timelines and the budget of the procurement process are being met.
 E. I assisted Program Manager(s) in the development of the acquisition lifecycle to identify objectives and milestones.
 F. I created performance schedules for project teams.
 G. I suggested changes to the Contracting Officer that improved contract performance and processes.
 H. None of the above.


8.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience monitoring project performance to completion?
 I developed policies that were implemented to monitor project performance.
 I directed programs that monitored project performance.
 I provided advice to others on how to monitor project performance to completion.
 I completed education and/or training related to monitoring project performance but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have no experience, training, or education related to monitoring project performance.


9.
Select the statements that best describe your experience leading or participating as a team member on specific projects.
 A. Communicated the organization’s strategic plan, mission, vision, and values to work team members and integrated them into the team’s strategies, goals, objectives, work plans products, and services.
 B. Communicated the assignment, project, problem to be solved, actions to be taken, milestones, program issues, and timeframes for completion to all team members.
 C. Coached the team and provided advice on appropriate work methods, practices, and procedures, and identified the parameters of a viable solution.
 D. Led the team in identifying, distributing, balancing, and adjusting workload and tasks as needed in accordance with established workflow, skill level and/or occupational specialization, and priorities.
 E. Participated in various team projects to analyze specific issues and to develop an approach to resolve specific agency problems or projects.
 F. Monitored and reported on status and progress of work, checked on work in progress and reviewed completed work to see that the team met the instruction on work priorities, methods, deadlines, and quality.
 G. Coached, facilitated and/or negotiated in coordinating team initiatives and built consensus.
 H. Amended or rejected work that did not meet established standards.
 I. None of the above.


10.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience participating in the life cycle management process for information technology products?
 I defined product requirements based on a customer’s needs.
 I developed a product from initial design, through prototype/pilot testing, to full product launch.
 I identified a manufacturing method for a product.
 I assisted users during operational phases and offered tools to maintain and repair a product.
 I completed education and/or training in life cycle management processes for information technology products, but do not have professional experience.
 I have no experience, training, or education in life cycle management processes for information technology products.


11.
Which project management tasks have you independently performed?
 A. Established project management standards (e.g., templates, guidelines) used by an entire organization.
 B. Executed established projects set by the executive leadership.
 C. Conducted research to resolve problems that arose during projects.
 D. Prioritized assigned individual tasks.
 E. Reviewed employees' work for technical adequacy.
 F. Provided performance feedback to team members on assigned tasks.
 G. Provided management oversight (e.g., tracking deadlines, monitoring performance) to a team on a project with organization-wide impact.
 H. None of the above.


12.
Select the activities you have performed to ensure the data integrity of electronic systems.
 A. I reviewed immigration benefit applications and petitions for completeness.
 B. I verified the accuracy of data entered.
 C. I updated databases with new/revised immigration benefit information.
 D. I created queries to facilitate data review.
 E. I conducted database searches to identify potential issues (e.g., fraud).
 F. None of the above


13.
Do you have experience translating raw data into reports that informed decisions made at the organization level?
 A. Assisted others compiling raw data into a usable format
 B. Translated raw data into reports for use by management within my division
 C. Translated raw data into reports for distribution outside of my division
 D. Translated raw data into reports to advise management decisions
 E. None of the above


14.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience reporting organizational performance measures?
 I have not had experience, education, or training related to reporting measures of organizational performance.
 I completed education and/or training related to reporting measures of organizational performance, but do not have professional experience.
 I compiled organizational performance data for analysis and subsequent reporting.
 I audited organizational performance-related reports to determine deficiencies/compliance with standards.
 I analyzed organizational performance-related reports to make recommendations to enhance operational effectiveness.


15.
I have evaluated information (e.g. data, reports) to identify process improvements adopted across an organization.
 True
 False


16.
Which statement best describes your experience conducting trend and predictive analysis?
 I have applied several techniques provided projections of future trends, predictive interpretation, and estimate analysis in the performance of complex national security issues.
 I have directed teams or groups providing projections of future trends, predictive interpretation, and estimate analysis in the performance of complex national security issues.
 I have performed refined research providing projections of future trends, predictive interpretation, and estimate analysis in the performance of complex national security issues.
 I have fostered the use of research and analysis to solve problems or make decisions providing projections of future trends, predictive interpretation, and estimate analysis in the performance of complex national security issues.
 I have led mission specific teams providing projections of future trends, predictive interpretation, and estimate analysis in performance of complex national security issues.
 I do not meet any of the options provided.


17.
Select the audiences for whom you have prepared customer feedback presentations (e.g., briefings).
 A. Colleagues
 B. Team leads/Program Managers
 C. First-line Supervisors
 D. Senior-level officials
 E. External partners
 F. None of the above


18.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience responding to an issue or situation in which the resolution was not obvious?
 I gathered basic information about the situation and took the issue to a supervisor for help.
 I researched the situation to develop alternatives within guidelines and collaborated with a supervisor to resolve it.
 I researched and resolved the issue independently, then briefed my team or supervisor on the action taken.
 None of the above.
 I developed a recommended solution based on my research of the situation and guidelines and sought confirmation/approval from my supervisor before proceeding.


19.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience addressing issues or concerns related to the delivery of technical customer services?
 I reported customer service issues to the appropriate staff for resolution.
 I collaborated with staff on customer requests to resolve issues.
 I developed new methods, approaches and procedures to improve customer services.
 I independently resolved customer support requests across a wide variety of information technology areas (e.g., platforms, operating systems, applications, and desktop configurations).
 I completed education and/or training related to providing technical customer services, but do not have professional experience.
 I have no experience, training, or education related to technical customer services.


20.
If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "pass," "satisfactory," or better?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. I am a Federal employee but have not received a performance rating.
 D. Not applicable. I am not a Federal employee.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


21.
Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙