Position Title
Supervisory Club Operations Assistant
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12819878 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 17, 2025 to Friday, October 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the professional certifications to qualify for the Club Operations Assistant Supervisory position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.



1.
Minimum of two years related experience in a food/beverage environment
 2+ years of documented work related experience in a food/beverage environment
 Less than 2 years or no documented work related experience in a food/beverage environment


2.
Documented work experience as a supervisor or lead
 6+ months of documented experience as a supervisor or lead
 Less and 6 months or no documented experience as a supervisor or lead


3.
This position is subject to the possibility of workdays on weekends and holidays and evenings, as well as rotating shifts, often consisting of other than normal duty hours. The staff member may be recalled to duty and/or required to work overtime, including to report for work when other employees are excused to cover mission needs.
 Yes I am available to work all the above requirements
 No I am not available to work any or all of the above requirements


4.
This positions requires the applicant to possess a valid state driver's license
 Yes
 No


5.
How many years of documented experience working in a food/beverage environment
 5+ years’ experience working in a food/beverage environment within the DoD
 5+ years' experience working in a food/beverage environment within the civilian sector
 4 to 5 years’ experience working in a food/beverage environment within the DoD
 4 to 5 years’ experience working in a food/beverage environment within the civilian sector
 3 to 4 years’ experience working in a food/beverage environment in either the DoD or civilian sector
 2 to 3 years’ experience working in a food/beverage environment in either the DoD or civilian sector
 Less than 2 years’ experience or no documented experience in either the DoD or civilian sector


6.
How many years of supervisory or leadership experience
 5+ years of documented experience
 3 to 5 years of documented experience
 1 to 2 years of documented experience
 6 months to 1 year of documented experience
 Less than 6 months of documented experience


7.
How many years of experience do you have in performing inventory management

 5+ years of documented experience
 3 to 5 years of documented experience
 1 to 2 years of documented experience
 6 months to 1 year of documented experience
 Less than 6 months of documented experience


8.
What programs are you proficient in using (mark all that apply):

 A. Microsoft Acrobat
 B. Microsoft Word
 C. Microsoft Excel
 D. Power Point
 E. None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙