Position Title
IT Specialist (SYSADMIN/CUSTSPT)
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLAJ6-25-12773578-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 29, 2025 to Sunday, August 10, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. .

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Would you accept a term appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
3. Do you have a current (or last) performance rating of at least Fully Successful or the equivalent?
 A. Yes. I am a current Federal employee or have been within the previous 52 weeks and my most recent performance rating of record is at or above the Fully Successful or equivalent level.
 B. I am a current Federal employee but have not yet received a Federal performance rating.
 C. I am not a current Federal employee or have not been during the previous 52 weeks, therefore I do not possess a Federal performance rating.
 D. No. My performance rating is below the Fully Successful or equivalent.
4. Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) in the past 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement
Assessment 1
1. From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.

 A. I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Managing deployment of new hardware to the existing or additional customer base; Serving as the principle technical authority for direction and decisions required to ensure project success; and Developing operational test and evaluation plans.
 B. I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.
In this part you will respond to questions about your experience as it relates to the position for which you are applying. Carefully review the level descriptions listed below. For each task question, choose the level description that best describes your experience and/or training. Your responses must be fully supported within the text of your resume. Failure to properly identify your experience may result in the lowering of your overall score and/or your disqualification for this position.
2. Configure or secure operating systems using group policy.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have experience applying group policies to systems.
 C. I have experience configuring group policies within Active Directory.
 D. I have experience configuring and writing custom group policies within Active Directory.
 E. I have experience leading a team that controls and administers group policies within Active Directory.
 F. None of the above.
3. Deploy operating systems to meet organizational IT and business solution needs.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have participated as part of a team in automating operating systems for deployment to meet organizational IT and business solution needs.
 C. I have developed automated operating systems for deployment to meet organizational IT and business solution needs.
 D. I have led the development of automated operating systems to meet organizational IT and business solution needs.
 E. None of the above.
4. Develop operating system standard operating procedures (SOPs) to ensure system issues are addressed.

 A. I have used operating system SOPs to ensure operating system issues were addressed.
 B. I have helped develop operating system SOPs to ensure operating system issues were addressed.
 C. I have developed a team-level operating system SOP to ensure operating system issues were addressed.
 D. I have developed an enterprise-level operating system SOP to ensure operating system issues were addressed.
 E. None of the above.
5. Install applications and application updates to improve system operation (e.g., reduce security vulnerabilities, fix bugs, or improve usability).

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have installed applications and application updates to improve system operation.
 C. I have developed automation (e.g., written scripts) to install applications and application updates to improve system operation.
 D. I have developed and deployed automated solutions to install applications and application updates on multiple systems to improve system operation.
 E. I have led a team to develop automated solutions to install applications and application updates on multiple systems to improve system operation.
 F. None of the above.
6. Install operating system patches or updates to improve system operation (e.g., reduce security vulnerabilities, fix bugs, or improve usability).

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have installed operating system patches or updates to improve system operation.
 C. I have developed automation (e.g., written scripts) to install operating system patches or updates to improve system operation.
 D. I have developed and deployed automated solutions to install operating system patches or updates on multiple systems to improve system operation.
 E. I have led a team to develop automated solutions to install operating system patches or updates on multiple systems to improve system operation.
 F. None of the above.
7. Which of the following appliances do you have experience in administering and updating operating systems? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Firewalls
 B. Switches
 C. Zero clients
 D. Mobile devices
 E. Print controllers
 F. Handheld scanners
 G. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
8. Which of the following server operating systems do you have experience in supporting or administering? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Windows 2003
 B. Windows 2008, R2
 C. Windows 2012, R2
 D. Windows 2016
 E. Linux
 F. UNIX
 G. Red Hat
 H. Solaris
 I. HP-UNIX
 J. Ubuntu
 K. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
9. Which of the following workstation operating systems do you have experience in supporting or administering? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Windows XP or Vista
 B. Windows 7
 C. Windows 8.X
 D. Windows 10
 E. Windows 11
 F. MacOS
 G. Linux
 H. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
10. Write scripts to improve application operability or functionality.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have modified an existing script template to improve application operability or functionality.
 C. I have written a script to improve application operability or functionality.
 D. I have deployed a script to multiple systems to improve application operability or functionality.
 E. I have led a team to deploy a script to multiple systems to improve application operability or functionality.
 F. None of the above.
11. Examine system logs or other information to identify the scope of client, server, or system issues.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have examined system logs or other information to identify an issue that affected a single user's software or hardware.
 C. I have examined system logs or other information to identify issues that affected the system performance of multiple systems.
 D. I have examined system logs or other information to identify issues that affected enterprise-wide system performance.
 E. None of the above.
12. Install third party software patches or updates to improve system operation (e.g., reduce security vulnerabilities, fix bugs, or improve usability).

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have installed third party software patches or updates to improve system operation.
 C. I have developed automation (e.g., written scripts) to install third party software patches or updates to improve system operation.
 D. I have developed and deployed automated solutions to install third party software patches or updates on multiple systems to improve system operation.
 E. I have led a team to develop automated solutions to install third party software patches or updates on multiple systems to improve system operation.
 F. None of the above.
13. Manage access to enterprise resources to support organizational needs.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have managed access to enterprise resources to support organizational needs using organizational guidance.
 C. I have provided input on guidance on managing access to enterprise resources to support organizational needs where guidance did not exist.
 D. I have independently developed guidance on managing access to enterprise resources to support organizational needs where guidance did not exist.
 E. None of the above.
14. Manage access to system resources to support end-user needs.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have managed access to system resources to support individual end-user needs.
 C. I have managed access to system resources to support organizational end-user needs.
 D. I have managed access to multiple system resources to support organizational end-user needs.
 E. None of the above.
15. Perform server-level system restores to ensure continuity of operations.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have performed a server-level system restore in a test environment to ensure continuity of operations.
 C. I have performed a server-level system restore in a live environment to ensure continuity of operations.
 D. I have performed a server-level system restore in a live environment in a remote location to ensure continuity of operations.
 E. None of the above.
16. Perform system backups to ensure system availability/continuity of operations.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have performed manual system backups to ensure system availability/continuity of operations.
 C. I have configured automated system backups to ensure system availability/continuity of operations.
 D. I have used enterprise solutions to perform multiple system backups to ensure system availability/continuity of operations.
 E. None of the above.
17. Prepare written reports to provide management with critical system operations information.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have prepared a section or portion of a written report to provide management with critical system operations information, which was subject to final review.
 C. I have prepared a written report to provide management with critical system operations information, which was subject to final review.
 D. I have been responsible for conducting final review on one or more written reports to provide management with critical system operations information.
 E. None of the above.
18. Resolve urgent system performance issues to improve the functionality of organizational networks and systems.

 A. I have resolved urgent issues that affected a single system's performance.
 B. I have resolved urgent issues that affected multiple systems' performance.
 C. I have resolved urgent issues that affected enterprise-wide system performance.
 D. None of the above.
19. Which of the following scripting or programming languages do you have experience writing in? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Perl
 B. SQL
 C. Python
 D. Microsoft PowerShell
 E. Java
 F. SAP
 G. VBScript
 H. Microsoft Visual Basic
 I. .NET
 J. C/C++
 K. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item.
20. Which of the following systems documents have you developed for management? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Systems security plans/policies
 B. Standard operating procedures or checklists
 C. Preventative maintenance schedules
 D. Network usage policies/procedures
 E. Inventory reports
 F. Weekly reports/briefings
 G. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
21. Which of the following types of software tests have you conducted for the purpose of assessing system operation? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Installation testing
 B. Compatibility/Inoperability testing
 C. 508 testing
 D. Regression testing
 E. User acceptance testing
 F. Load, scalability, volume, or stress testing
 G. Development testing
 H. Vulnerability testing
 I. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
22. Coordinate the delivery of IT customer support solutions (e.g., delivery of new hardware, software upgrades, system maintenance) to minimize interruption to service operations.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have participated in service roll-outs for customer support by coordinating with the customer directly.
 C. I have participated in service roll-outs for customer support by coordinating with the customer and Information Technology Team leadership.
 D. I have led the coordination effort to deliver approved service roll-outs for customer support.
 E. None of the above.
23. Develop local procedures for improving customer IT systems to minimize interruptions.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have implemented procedures developed by others to minimize interruptions.
 C. I have participated in the development of guidance for procedures to minimize interruptions.
 D. I have developed guidance for procedures to minimize interruptions.
 E. None of the above.
24. Develop mitigation plans for recurring IT issues.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have gathered data on recurring IT issues for the development of a mitigation plan.
 C. I have gathered data and analyzed the information to determine underlying causes of recurring IT issues.
 D. I have gathered data, analyzed the information to determine underlying causes, and used this analysis to create guidance on how to minimize loss of operations or functioning on recurring IT issues.
 E. None of the above.
25. I have provided support for the following products to meet customer needs. (Select all that apply.)

 A. Desktop Operating Systems
 B. Network Operating Systems
 C. Office Productivity Suites
 D. Web-based Applications
 E. Cloud Systems
 F. Virtual Desktop Systems
 G. Server Operating Systems
 H. Mobile Platforms
 I. Remote Administration Tools
 J. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
26. Resolve problems (e.g., hardware, software, user training) in response to customer incidents.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have identified customer problems for a colleague or supervisor to resolve.
 C. I have diagnosed and resolved documented recurring customer problems.
 D. I have instructed others or developed guidance for resolving recurring problems.
 E. I have diagnosed and resolved unprecedented customer problems where guidance did not exist.
 F. I have performed trend analysis and identified root causes to prevent further incidents.
 G. None of the above.
27. Use a ticketing system (e.g., Information Technology Service Management) or commercial off-the shelf (COTS) solution to manage customer reported incidents (e.g., problem tracking, resolution).

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have logged customer reported incidents into a ticketing system.
 C. I have trained others in the use of a ticketing system to manage customer reported incidents.
 D. I have corrected mistakes in a ticketing system or used advanced analytics (e.g., trend analysis, pattern detection) to manage customer reported incidents.
 E. I have developed local processes or procedures to enhance the use of the ticketing system to ensure quality and accuracy of data.
 F. None of the above.
28. Develop strategies or procedures that ensure optimization in the installation, configuration, or maintenance of a customer's hardware or software.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have participated on a team to develop strategies or procedures to optimize a customer's hardware or software.
 C. I have led a team to develop strategies or procedures to optimize a customer's hardware or software.
 D. I have approved or rejected the strategies or procedures developed by others to optimize a customer's hardware or software.
 E. None of the above.
29. Ensure new software or hardware meet IT configuration standards.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have reviewed new software or hardware to see how they compare to baseline configurations.
 C. I have reviewed new software or hardware to see how they compare to baseline configurations at multiple milestones through the system rollout.
 D. I have reviewed new software or hardware to see how they compare to baseline configurations at multiple milestones through the system rollout, and tracked changes made during implementation.
 E. I have reviewed new software or hardware to see how they compare to baseline configurations at multiple milestones through the system rollout, tracked changes made during implementation, and maintained system configurations in production to adhere to current baseline levels.
 F. None of the above.
30. Evaluate IT configurations to determine necessary enhancements, upgrades, or modifications.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have reviewed current IT configurations and identified possible enhancements, upgrades, or modifications.
 C. I have reviewed current IT configurations; identified possible enhancements, upgrades, or modifications; and proposed a plan to improve IT configurations based on findings.
 D. I have reviewed IT configuration proposals and exercised decision-making authority for implementation.
 E. None of the above.
31. Manage IT configurations to prevent information system vulnerabilities.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have managed IT configurations of a single program or application to prevent information system vulnerabilities.
 C. I have managed IT configurations of a portfolio of programs or applications to prevent information system vulnerabilities.
 D. I have managed IT configurations at the enterprise level to prevent information system vulnerabilities.
 E. None of the above.
32. Examine IT requirements to determine the type of documentation needed for a project.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have gathered IT requirements information for a colleague or supervisor to examine.
 C. I have examined IT requirements to determine the type of documentation needed for a project and presented the recommendation(s) to a colleague or supervisor.
 D. I have examined IT requirements to determine the type of documentation needed for a project and presented the recommendation(s) to senior-level management.
 E. None of the above.
33. Follow procedures to ensure hardware or software transactions are managed in accordance with established policy.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have adhered to established procedures to ensure hardware or software is managed in accordance with established policy.
 C. I have developed procedures for ensuring hardware or software is managed in accordance with established policy.
 D. I have reviewed the compliance of other personnel with inventory management procedures.
 E. None of the above.
34. Participate in feasibility studies to determine which hardware or software best meets present and future needs.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have contributed to a study to determine which hardware or software best met present and future needs.
 C. I have led a study to determine which hardware or software best met present and future needs.
 D. None of the above.
35. Which of the following third party or contracting-related activities have you carried out to provide IT support to customers? (Select all that apply)

 A. Worked with third party or contract personnel
 B. Evaluated proposals from third party or contract personnel
 C. Established performance metrics for third party or contract personnel
 D. Evaluated performance of third party or contract personnel against established metrics
 E. Served as a contracting officer's technical representative
 F. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
36. From the list below, select the response which corresponds to the highest level of education you have achieved. Education claimed may be verified upon selection. If you do not possess or unable to
provide proof of education claimed, you may be found ineligible.

 A. Less than 2 Years of College
 B. Associate's Degree OR Two Years College (successfully completed at least 60 semester or 90 quarter hours)
 C. Bachelor's Degree OR Four Years College (successfully completed at least 120 semester or 180 quarter hours)
 D. Master's Degree OR Above
37. Have you received an honorary or monetary award from your employer (government civilian, military, or private sector) during the last 3 years?

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected