Position Title
Health System Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSV-12793871-25-SW Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 15, 2025 to Thursday, September 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs within the VISN the position is located?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.
1. Time-In-Grade Requirement: Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements within 30 days of the closing date of this announcement. For a GS-12 position you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-11. The grade may have been in any occupation, but must have been held in the Federal service. An SF-50 that shows your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade. Note: Time-In-Grade requirements also apply to former Federal employees applying for reinstatement as well as current employees applying for Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA) appointment.

Do you meet the time-in-grade requirement as described above? Please select the response below which most accurately describes you.
 A. I am a current/former federal employee and meet the time in grade requirement for GS-12
 B. This restriction does not apply to me (for example, I have not held a GS position in the past 52 weeks, I am a Wage Grade employee.
 C. This restriction applies to me, but I do not meet the requirements.
2. Specialize Experience: You must at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-11 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Your experience must show progressively responsible analytical or administrative, or clinical management or supervisory experience in the health care field. This work may have been performed in an operating health care facility or a higher organizational echelon with advisory or directional authority over such facilities. Work must have involved a close working relationship with facility managers and analysis and/or coordination of administrative, clinical, or other service activities, and provided knowledge of the following: 
Missions, organizations, programs, and requirements of health care delivery systems; 
Regulations and standards of various regulatory and credentialing groups; and
Government-wide, agency, and facility systems and requirements in various administrative areas such as budget, personnel, and procurement.  
Examples of  specialized experience includes, but not limited to: Defines a project scope and goals through a collaborative process with subject matter experts and leadership at the facility, service line or program, or unit level. Facilitates, coaches, and trains audiences at all levels of the organizations throughout the lifecycle of a performance improvement project. Participating in and facilitates transformative quality, safety, effectiveness, and efficiency improvement efforts. Delivers training materials and curriculum consisting of advanced practices of project management, statistics, coaching, facilitation and leadership. Delivers classroom instructions about Lean, Lean Six Sigma, Systems Redesign or other improvement methodologies tools and techniques to all levels of the organization. Acts as the project lead for healthcare and operational improvement projects. Provides consultation to executives, service line, and program leadership by leveraging VA data analytics resources. Identifies metrics performing below benchmarked standards or falling below the upper or lower control limits. NOTE: Applicants wishing to receive credit for such experience must clearly indicate the nature of their duties and responsibilities in each position and the number of hours a week spent in such employment.

Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position at the GS-12 level.
 A. I have one year specialize experience equivalent to the GS-11 as described above.
 B. I do not possess the required level of experience for the GS-12
Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected