Position Title
Administrative Support Assistant
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12811330 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 2, 2025 to Friday, October 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for an Administrative Support Assistant position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Please indicate how many years of experience in customer service management procedures applies to you (includes reception, information & referral, managing appointments)?
 I have 2+ years’ experience in customer service management procedures.
 I have 1-2 years’ experience in customer service management procedures.
 I have less than 1 year experience in customer service management procedures.
 I have no experience in customer service management procedures.


2.
How many years of experience do you have working in a professional setting handling crisis calls and/or walk-ins?
 I have 2+ years’ experience in handling crisis calls and walk-ins.
 I have 1-2 years’ experience in handling crisis calls and walk-ins.
 I have less than 1 year experience in handling crisis calls and walk-ins.
 I have no experience in handling crisis calls and walk-ins.


3.
Please select all database(s), software(s), and platform(s) that you have experience using.
 A. Spreadsheet (e.g. Microsoft Excel)
 B. Word processing (e.g. Word)
 C. Email applications (e.g. Outlook)
 D. Presentation software (e.g. Powerpoint)
 E. Internet browsers (e.g. Internet Explorer/ Firefox/ Google Chrome)
 F. FedEx Shipping and Receiving/ UPS Shipping and Receiving/ other relevant mailing services.
 G. None of these


For each technical area below, select the response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and demonstrated capability.


4.
Please select the one that best decribes your experience with policies, regulations, and procedures required for the Fleet and Family Support Program.
 I have no knowledge or demonstrated capability in this technical area.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of the fundamental concepts involved in this technical area. I will require formal training and close supervision to perform this work.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of some advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of working on most projects in this technical area with moderate assistance. I am able to perform this work with minimal supervision.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of many advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of mentoring others on some projects in this technical area. I am able to perform this work without supervision except in the most complex situations.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of most advanced concepts within this technical area. I am considered an expert in the field and am frequently consulted by others about this technical area. I am responsible for mentoring and training others in this technical area.


5.
In your own words, please describe the mission, functions, and various programs within the Fleet and Family Support Program and their impact on the military and civilian persons they service.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙